$975 million. Thats how much loom was acquired for. But, the question here for ASSAS developers is not what they did to accomplish this, but what goes into building an application so powerful. And today, you will learn how to build an application, just as powerful as loom from real time streaming to revolutionizing client acquisition. This video is going to teach you far more than just SAS development. The project that well be building today is called Opal.

0:41
And Opal is going to revolutionize client outreach. Now, before we start building the project, we need to understand what were building and how everything works under the hood. So, please, do not skip this or the next module, because im going to explain the backbone for the entire application. The target mark market for Opal is freelancers, agency owners and business owners.

1:03
And, instead of the traditional approach of sending thousands of CMs to prospects online, opal can help them build personalized videos that they can send to their prospects that are instantly available when they stop recording. That means in this project, you will learn how to save and stream videos in real time. And, the best part is, were not going to be using a thirdparty library were going to build every single thing from scratch.

1:31
Now, the biggest problem with reaching out to prospects and sending them resources is, youll never know if they engaged with the resource. That means, did they even find it useful, and you're, not going to be able to follow up with your customers. And for that reason, when a viewer clicks on an opal video, we will send our users a notification. This way, our users can follow up with their prospects and close more deals.

1:54
This strategy that I created was implemented in a students business inside Prodigy University, and they took their business from $0 to $115000 in less than 2 weeks. You can also call this a loom clone, if you like. But we also implemented AI features into Opal users who have a pay tier, are going to get access to Opal AI.

2:17
They can leverage AI to create titles, descriptions, a summary for the entire video, and also extract the transcript from the video itself. Now, if you are a creative person, you could leverage this transcript itself and create an email marketing campaign using something like chat. GBT. Of Opal is unlimited. You could literally send a birthday wish to a friend in less than 5 seconds.

2:44
So, the application that you're building today is extremely valuable, that means you dont have to stick around that price point of $97 or $100 per month. You can charge $500 per month if you have the value to offer. And before we get started, the sponsor of todays C. Coffee is 5 minute podcast. 940. Thank you so much for supporting us and giving back to the web prodigies community.

3:08
This way, we are able to give you so much more free value, just like this. And, my goal here is very straightforward. I want to help SAS developers quit their 9 to5 and attain financial freedom through their SAS. Way for me to do that is to give away all this value completely for free. And then hopefully, you take action and you start and scale your SAS to $20000 per month.

3:29
And then yours truly can invest his time and energy into your SAS business and help you scale to the moon with the strategies that I have seen working in companies over and over again. And with that being said, lets get started.

What technologies are used to build Loom

3:43
We will be using BUN or NPM AWS and S3 buckets. Shat c Nuui, tailwind, CSS, neon for our database. The latest stable version of Nextjs, prisma Node, mailer stripe, Z, and React.

4:00
HOOK forms Redux clerk authentication, typescript. Query for server side states and Caching Electronjs, Vjs and vanilla React to build a native application for both Windows and Mac OS. That allows users to connect their camera, their microphone and their screens. Socket. Io to upload video chunks in real time to AWS simultaneously, express. To build a backend, whisper ai for video transcriptions, open AI for titles and descriptions.

4:37
CMs feature from Wix studio, and finally, voice flow for an advanced AI agent that can understand the video context, allowing users to ask questions and get AI powered support. Heres, a quick demo of Opal, opal has two different type of pricing plans, the free tier and the pro plan.

Demo of the application

4:54
Now, this slide is important, because based on the plan, that the user has, were going to need to build the application in such a way that we can give proplan members access to their premium features. Okay, so take a mental screenshot of this, were going to need this in this project. Now, free tier members can only upload 25 videos per month, and each video can only be 5 minutes long, recorded in 720P only.

5:17
Okay, now, every member also gets access to a free workspace. And this workspace acts as a personal workspace. So, users cannot invite other members into their personal workspace feature. Members also have the ability to try AI features before they commit to a pay plan. Super cool pricing model were going to teach you how to do that. Okay. The Pro plan, on the other hand, gives the user unlimited access to Opal.

5:43
Thats it, so, all videos can also be recorded in 1080p with the pro plan, and they can also swap between 1080p and 720p based on their preference. Users can sign into the application using Google Authentication. And once they are successfully signed up, theyre redirected to the library page. This is where they can see the folders along with the videos that they have recorded.

6:06
Now, the best part of Opal is not only are we going to be building a web application version, were also going to be building a native desktop application using ElectronJS. The first awesome feature of Opal is optimistic UI. When the user tries to create a folder, the data instantly reflects on the client side, even though this is done on the server. This means no more load times.

6:33
And your application is going to feel blazing fast to rename a folder. Just go ahead and double click the title. Now, you can change it to whatever you like. And if you click outside, thats going to save the title, name, the notifications tab shows all of the notifications that the user received.

6:52
The Bildings page shows their current plan, and the settings page is going to give the user the ability to add light mode, dark mode, or even change, enable first view mode. This means when a prospect views a video, the user will get a notification, and that notification, of course, can be accessed through the notifications page. The homeage acts like an onboarding guide that we will be building using CMS only.

7:20
That means our team members can get access to the CMS, and they can launch campaigns, or share new updates on newer features. Fe inside Opal, the workspaces tab down here shows all of the public workspaces that the user has been invited into. This means that the user is dedicated, a personal workspace, and they can also join other public workspaces as well.

7:47
If you click on a video right here, this will take you into the video dashboard. This is essentially the page, where you can see the summary, the AI given titles, and the descriptions for the video as well. You can also play this video, if youd, like to watch it, or you can click on the tabs on the right side.

8:07
The first one is Opal AI, which is our AI tool, free tier members have the option to try AI features before purchasing a pro plan. And if they want to pay, they can also go ahead and upgrade their plan to get unlimited access to AI features. The next tab is the transcript tab. Inside this tab, you can see the transcript of the video. And this feature is also powered by AI.

8:34
Inside the activity tab, prospects can leave comments on the users video. So, for example, im going to say, amazing video. And if I hit enter, the comment will show right below. These components are also recursive. That means users can respond back to a comment, and respond to comments infinitely. If for some reason, the AI did not do a good job with the title and the description.

9:01
You can update this information by clicking on the edit icon, click on update. And the information will also be updated in real time. Users can upgrade to a pro plan by clicking on the upgrade button. And that takes them to a stripe hosted page, where they can enter their credit card information for $99 per month. So, for example, im going to go ahead and click on subscribe.

9:27
And this is going to take us back into the dashboard once the payment is successful. Awesome. And now, because the user is on a pro plan, we are no longer showing the upgrade. Button. Switching to a public workspace gives the user the ability to invite other users into their public workspace. Invite to workspace, button has an optimized search feature that gives the user the ability to search and add users directly into their workspace.

9:58
The invited user also gets an email notification, where they can directly click on the link to accept their invite. Now, because I am not signed in with the right account, its going to give me a not authorized page. Now, I signed in with the correct account. And I also have the new workspace that I just got invited into. Users can also move videos from one folder to another.

10:24
So, as you can see, im going to move this, and just like that, it is now moved into the client outreach folder. Now, the most powerful part of Opal is users can directly copy a link to a video, and they can share it with their prospects. And if you open that link, you will see a preview version. Now, my favorite feature in Opal is the embed code.

10:48
If you click on this button, users get a piece of code that they can paste inside an email. But this feature is so powerful, because if you paste this link inside an email, it will also show a custom thumbnail for that video. This way, you can instantly grab your prospects attention, because they can see exactly what you're speaking about before, they even click on the video.

11:14
And, of course, the title and the description is also pasted in here. You can change it. If you like to Now, lets quickly, take a look at our electron version of our application. First step is to go ahead and sign in into clerk authentication. So, lets go ahead and click on, sign in, and then we can go ahead and click on the account that we wish to sign in with. And thats pretty much it.

11:38
Now, the first step is to prompt the user to give security access to their microphone and desktop settings. So, let me go ahead and do that first. All right, there you go. Opal now, has access to my microphone, and the different screens that I have available on my computer. The first step is opal will look into the database to see the settings that the user has set as a preset for their opal application.

12:05
So, if I already created a preset or used some devices in the past, opal is going to go ahead and, remember that. So, the next time I sign in, its going to use the same devices. Now, because im a new user, its going to look at the available devices, and set the first device as the default setting. Now, the next window that you're going to see down here is called the studio. Tri.

12:29
This has access to the recording feature, along with a popup that can show the screen that I am currently recording. And you can access that widget by clicking on this icon, and then setting the screen that you wish to see. And you can see a small little recording here, which I think is a really cool feature. And this will also not show when you're recording the screen itself.

12:52
Another feature is when the user starts to record the main window, which we call the studio, will also be hidden. So, thats not going to be there in the video as well. Now, I hope you remember each tier has access to different features. If you're, on a pro plan, you can record your screen and your video camera in 1080p.

13:12
And if you want to change that to a lower resolution, you can select between the available options. Now, we are saving and streaming this video from AWS. So, you're going to learn how to use Amazon Web services in this video.

13:27
Now, because we are saving and streaming in real time, which means were going to be taking buffer data and sending it across into a server, and then processing all this buffer data, creating a temporary file, and then pushing that file to AWS were going to need web sockets. And we will also be using SocketIO in this project. Now, to make this work, were also going to need a separate application.

13:53
Thats essentially our server, which is going to be made using our express server. So, lets, go ahead and take a look at that. Another cool feature to point out is our opal application is essentially a layout on top of all of other applications as well. So, even if you are on full screen mode, you can still record your screen.

14:14
And now, the first thing, as you can see, my socket is connected, and my video chunks are being saved in real time. That means as everything is running right now, as were recording, its being sent to AWS. Okay, so were creating this file, essentially, right here, and then were going to push this. So now, if I stop this video, its going to save everything.

14:38
And its going to let me know that its successfully uploaded to AWS. So, lets go ahead and stop this video. There we go. Its successfully uploaded now. So, lets go to our dashboard and take a look and see whats going on. Okay, if you go to your dashboard, now, you can find the screen recording that I just made right here.

14:58
And if you click on it, you're going to notice that we have an AI generated title, a description. And we also have the transcript that is instantly available to us. And of course, you can also play the video, listen to it, and watch it if you want to.

Complete breakdown of the architecture

15:15
So, before we get started, I would like for you to understand the architecture of the entire application.

15:21
How do all the building blocks and opal connect to one another. This is the most important part of this entire build. So, so, please give me some of your attention, stop what you're doing and focus, because if you skip this part, in this project, nothing else will make sense from here on. So, just like every other application, this application also has a couple building blocks. The first one is NextJS.

15:46
NextJS will serve as the front end for our application. We will also host a couple endpoints where we can call this application to store some data or get some data from the database as well. The next one is our database. So, lets go ahead and say DB right here. Awesome. The next building block is the authentication system for our app. So, im going to use clerk for our authentication system.

16:11
And finally, were going to need a way to connect our users native devices to our application as well, because we not only want to record the browser, we want to give the user to record their entire screen, which means were going to need access to the operating system. And this is going to be possible through ElectronJS. ElectronJS, is a free, open source software framework developed and maintained by OpenJS Foundation.

16:42
The framework is designed to create desktop applications using web technologies that are rendered using a version of the Chromium browser, and the NodeJS runtime environment. And thats, how were able to build native applications using some like React or Javascript. Now, these building blocks serve as the main backbone for our app, but theres more to this as a dependent, you can think about it as a dependency for all of these to actually work.

17:13
So, since were using realtime data, that means while the user is recording their screen, we are instantly saving these video chunks, which means were going to need something that leverages sockets. Now, since we cant use sockets in Nextjs, we got to figure out another way. And the best way right now is to create another express server right here.

17:35
And this express server is going to have sockets listening to when data comes in from our electron application. Now, well, get to more details. I just want to show you the overall building blocks of this app. The next thing is, were going to need a file, storage location. And this time, we are not using any sort of third party library. This time, were using AWS. And, in simple terms, AWS offers a range of services.

18:03
Cloud services, to help SAS companies build such projects. Now, AWS has more than 200 different services, so, we are not even going to scrape the surface. CUz were just using one of these services. And the service that well be using, this time is called S3 buckets. So, amazons, S3 stands for simple storage service.

18:26
And it is a cloud object storage service that allows you or allows companies to store retrieve and manage files or data from anywhere. And, the final component here, thats going to make all of this possible is Cloudfront. Cloudfront is going to help us stream these videos or whatever were storing inside our S3 bucket, to our application. And, the reason why we need Cloudfront is the S3 bucket is actually private.

18:54
And because of this, we cant directly stream to our front end. So, were going to need a service in between, kind of, like a middleman to help us do this. So, when the user first logs into our platform, there are two actions that are needed to be performed. First, we need to send all the information to clerk and authenticate the user. And the second action is, we need to create the users profile itself inside OPO.

19:19
So, clerk is going to give us the clerk ID, the profile stuff, right? Like the image, their avatar, image, their name, emails, all that kind of stuff were going to, were going to take that information and were going to store it in our database. So, first request goes to clerk, clerk will send a response back to our endpoint. And this endpoint is the call back URL.

19:40
And once that is successful, youll immediately go and create the user inside the database, like this, and, well, get a response, saying success as well. And thats it for authentication with our front end application. Now, in our native version, which is our ElectronJS version, were also going to need to verify and authenticate the user here as well. So, in our Electron version, the user can also sign in and sign up.

20:08
So, this is something that no one has showed you on Youtube, which is how to use clerk in a native application. So, first thing were going to do here is, were going to send a request to clerk, and clerk is going to send us the same profile info that we need. And the main key here is through this process, were going to get the clerk ID.

20:32
Okay, this clerk ID is going to help us navigate our user from our database as well. Now, our ElectronJS application also has settings for the user. And what this means is what device are theyre trying to record on their microphone settings, their camera, all this kind of stuff is stored inside our database. So, were going to need this profile information.

20:55
So, to get this profile object, were going to take this clerk ID, were going to make a request to our NextJS application. Our NextJS application is going to make a request to the database, and its going to send us this user profile. And once this is successful, we can go ahead and send that data to our electron version.

21:15
And now that we have all of the user profile information, we can sync everything up with the Electron app. So, theyre going to have all the data stored directly in there. But of course, since the user is not already a part of the application, they just opened up an account, theyre not going to have a setting for their default screen, or the default microphone. So, what do we do now?

21:40
Well, the first thing, let me just scroll down here, is we need to get access to their native components, right Were going to need the, the available screens, and the microphone. So, what were going to do in our electron application is, were going to create some sort of an array. And inside this array, were going to get access to all of the microphones that are available. And all of the screens that are available as well.

22:04
Okay. And once we get access to this, were now going to take the first one from this, and set it as the default. Okay. And the same thing for the microphone as well, at least this is how I would expect it to work being a user, I would want it to immediately grab the first available microphone and screen.

22:25
And then, of course, since this is an array, you, you can swap between which screen you want to show microphone or camera. Now, once the user is authenticated, and all their information is in sync, the next thing is we need to establish a connection between our electron application and the express server. This way, we can broadcast anything like the streaming files, or establish a connection, and show the user that everything is real time.

22:54
So, hereS, what were going to do to establish this connection First, once the user signs up, were going to need to broadcast an API key. So, let me change that to API key, just like this. And this API key is going to go to our express server right here.

23:12
And, once the express server receives, this, its going to send a pretty much send a response back to our electron application, letting us know that the connection is successful. Now, once this connection is established, only then, can we send chunks and data, like recording files to this express server using the socket connection?

23:36
Okay, now, im going to break this down even more, but I just want to show you why we need to establish the first connection. So, now that we have understood why we need an ELECTRONJS version of our application, an express server, and a socket IO connection between these servers lets get into understanding the individual components within the ElectronJS version, and, and our express server itself.

24:00
Okay, so, first, lets break down our electron application and lets understand how it truly works under the hood. So, in a traditional React application lets say this was the window right here, or maybe lets go to a new page. So, lets say this was the window, right? Or the browser, if we wanted to have a component here, that acts like the control panel, well, we would create a little div here, right?

24:24
And, if we needed a tray again, well, create another for the tray. And if were showing the userss camera or, you know, whatever, if they have an image here, then WED, also need to show a create another div for this. Just give it some styling. And all of this would work under one browser, right? Its one, react application, but in ElectronJS, its slightly different.

24:47
So, assuming that this is the users computer, and they are on a Mac, I just created a little dock there. I guess you get the whole point if we wanted to show a plugin, sort of like a control panel, right. The exact same example, but were converting this to a native application. And then we have the tray at the bottom here. And we have the users camera.

25:06
We would need to create individual applications or individual renders for each of these. So, this in itself is a window. Okay, so we need to render three windows. And each of these windows act as an individual REACT application. So, very different from the other approach, which is in the browser, because in the browser, we have one React application and were just creating little elements around here and there, right.

25:32
But in this one, its essentially three different renders itself. So three different windows, which act like three different react applications. And our main file is going to help us create those windows when we start the application first. Okay, so were going to create three windows here, 1.2,3, just like this. And thats the task of the main file. Now, there are more tasks in the main file.

25:56
For example, since each of these are individual React applications, we also need to have individual HTML files for each of these Windows, correct. So, thats, why were going to have the HTML files also load into these applications in the main file as well. So, the main file takes care of setting up these HTML files, right? And kind of like injecting it into the, renders the windows itself.

26:25
And, of course, its also going to initiate an instantiate, the windows to render on the users computer. Okay, the other thing were doing inside the main, is, were setting up something called IPC events. Now, if the word sounds crazy, it is very simple. Think about it this way. Now, if we have three different windows, and we want to transfer information or data between different windows, we would need to use some sort of a state provider.

26:54
So, IPC renders allow us to sort of share this state or share information or events between different windows. So, lets say the user logged in on this window. And we need to share that state into all other windows, as well. We can use the IPC event to fire an event on all of these Windows. These listeners will basically look for these events.

27:19
And when the events occur, its going to understand that, okay, I have some data coming in. So, I'm going to pretty much sync up whatever is coming in as well, right? So, thats, the whole point of IPC events, lets summarize that IPC events is kind of like triggering an event to a different window. Okay, thats pretty much it. So, were going to also set that up inside the main file.

27:42
So, its safe to say that we have one more component that we can add to this, which is IPC renderer. And the IPC renderer is kind of like the API that gives us access to the IPC events. The next one is called the media resource. And the job of the media resource is essentially to just get access to the users screens. Okay.

28:06
So, remember when I told you, in the beginning, we are getting the user settings from our database, right, which is a one, single ID, and based on the preferred screen, were going to look at the available screens on the users computer and were going to use the first one if they dont have anything set already, right?

28:27
So, this media resource is going to help us get all of the screens that are available on the users computer. And, if the user has a saved preference inside the database, were going to use that setting that they provided in there, and were going to select that from this media resource array, and pick that specific screen, and set it as a current default. Okay.

28:51
And, if theres nothing, of course, were just going to take the first element from this array and set it in here. So, you see why we need the media resource, part of the electron application. Now, the next part of the electron application, which is also the most important one, is the media stream.

29:08
This section is going to pretty much consist of everything related to using an API to create a buffer stream, so, we can send it to another backend. Okay, and ILL show you what were using in here to make this work. So, un under the media stream, we have something called the Navigator API. This Navigator API does one simple task, which is, it provides buffer streams for our screen recording buffer, stream data, essentially.

29:39
So, we can use this buffer, stream data and send it somewhere. But something needs to record the screen for us to get buffer, stream data from that. So, essentially, the media stream is responsible for recording the screen. Okay, so we record the screen, recording the screen. Let me put it here. So you guys can see, and the Navigator API is responsible for providing the buffer stream data.

30:03
Okay, so now, you see how these to kind of come together, right? So, now that we have the buffer, stream data, and we have, you know, I mean, which were getting from the screen, recording stuff, we also need to send this data or perform some actions on this data. How can we do that? Well, thats the next section of the electron application, which is called the media recorder.

30:27
The media recorder is responsible for giving you an API, into which you can pass in the stream data. So, the media stream that we have, you can pass it into the media recorder. And the media recorder is going to give you access to some methods, okay, that you can use on the media stream, which is start. So, start recording or stop recording. And finally, the most important one, which is data available.

30:55
And I think there are more methods as well, but I think you get the point, right? This media stream, once its passed into the media recorder, gives us access to these three methods. And we can invoke these methods on the media recorder to essentially perform the following actions, which is to start recording or to stop, right?

31:14
So, this is basically like an, ITS, just an API, like an instance that were creating, passing it into the media recorder. And then we can use all these actions right here. Now, what is the point of the data available method?

31:28
The reason why this application is so powerful is because we are sending and saving realtime video stream data, which means if we have a client here were literally sending videos as the user is recording them on their screen. That way, we can create a file on the server side, right, on our express server.

31:49
And we can store all this buffer, stream data into this, as time goes, and eventually, when the user is done recording, we can start and then save this file as a whole, right? So, thats what this data available is going to help us, with, which is creating a timer like structure. So, based on a timer, we can send the data to our backend, which is send these chunks, the buffer stream chunks to our express server.

32:18
So, let me just also mention it right here. So, when you start recording, you can add a timer. Okay, this is the benefit of using the data available method. And this timer, right now, in our application is 1 second. Okay. So, every second, its going to fire the call back, think about it that way, right? And the callback function will essentially send the buffer stream chunks to our express server.

32:46
And again, were doing this with the help of web sockets. And this is why we need our websocket connection before we start anything. All right, so, these are all the components in our electron application. Theres still more, but hopefully this makes sense. I told you, it was a complex project. I mean, it makes sense. The application was sold for $800 million. And it solved such a big problem, right?

33:10
So, theres a lot that goes into this and were building it completely from scratch, right? Were not using any library. So, as a result, it is going to be quite complex. So, just bear with me. But, im trying to make this as easy as possible to follow by explaining every single step. So, you understand exactly what typing in the code.

33:29
Okay, so, the next thing I want to help you understand is what happens while, were using the data available method, and constantly streaming data to our express server. Does the express server do while the data is being streamed in real time.

33:45
So, before we jump into, what happens when we stop, or, you know, the final, pretty much the final stage of uploading the video, lets understand what happens on the express side with the stream data being sent in real time to the express server. Okay, so our Express server, again, is made out of, you know, a couple stages, right?

34:06
So, when the data first comes in, the first thing were doing is, were creating something, we call a buffer array. And these, the buffer array essentially takes each chunk that is sent in real time, and append it to this buffer array. Then, our next step is, were convert this buffer array to, to a blob. And once we convert it into a blob we need to create a readable stream.

34:34
And, now that we have this readable stream, we need to pipe the readable stream to a right stream into the file system, right? So, essentially, we create this file thats inside the express servers file system. And we are constantly piping the data that comes in and gets appended to our buffer array, right? Were going to constantly append it.

34:57
Kind of like, I mean, you can think about it as a pending, right, but were adding it to this files, this file that we created inside our file system. Thats pretty much what were doing. Okay, were piping the readable stream data. So, let me go ahead and mention that here. So, pipe a readable stream to a WR stream. Okay. And this way, we can send it to the file system.

35:22
All right, so, these are the steps that take place in our express application. Nothing too complex, is just a sequence of steps that happen while we are sending data, sending our buffer chunks in real time. Okay, so please understand that it happens during the process. Not after. Okay, now, lets understand what happens after we stop. So, after we stop, what happens after this stage.

35:46
So, as we all know, once we stop, the first step is, were going to send the final stream data, if anything is needed to our express backend, to pretty much handle that. All right. And then inside our express server, again, going back to our express server, we have another, I guess you can call it another segment or a section of our express server.

36:05
And this part handles dealing with finding the file inside the file system, and uploading it to AWS. Okay, so, the first stage is, were going to find the file. Okay, and this is located, like I mentioned, inside the file system. And the next step is, were going to create a placeholder entry into our database. Okay.

36:27
And the reason why were doing this is we need to indicate to our, you know, to our users, that we are trying to upload the video, were trying to process everything, right? Because there are so many chunks. And in case it took a little bit of a delay, we want to make sure that the user is aware that its still processing, right? So, our next step is create the processing entry in the database.

36:50
Okay, and all were doing is I'm setting a Boolean property, thats it. So, I'm setting a Boolean property to true. And I think its called processing, right now. So, thats, it, were just going to set this to true. And this way, when the VI, when the user tries to open that video before it was uploaded and successfully processed, right, they get to see a processing kind of placeholder.

37:12
The next one is, were going to initialize the AWS stuff. So, essentially anything thats needed to upload to our S3 bucket. And, since we have the file here, all were going to do in the next step is just simply upload this file. So, were going to upload it to our S3 bucket.

37:30
Now, while this while this is being uploaded to AWS, since we already have the file in here, right, we dont need to make another API request to AWS, we already have the file. So, what were going to do is were going to start our AI sequence. So, whats going to happen in here is, were first going to make a check to see if the user has a pay tier, right?

37:52
And, if they have a pay tier, then only then will we proceed with creating all the AI related stuff. Okay, but lets say they do have a pay tier in this case. So, if they do, the first thing were going to do is we will be using whisper. Ai. And whisper AI is going to take in our video, and its going to give us a transcript.

38:13
And this transcript is what we can use to pretty much show inside the application. Okay, so the users can see whats, whats being said, as well. And once we have the transcript from whisper. AI were going to take this transcript, and were going to leverage open AI and open AAI is going to give us a description. Its also going to give us the title for the video. So, everything is handled by this AI.

38:36
Essentially, it just does the process of understanding what the video is talking about, it creates an appropriate title, and the description for the video. Now, again, the architecture was built in such a way that you can expand on this and leverage more AI features in this. Okay, we just want to give you a base template. So, you can pretty much use it for whatever you want.

38:55
Now, theres another powerful feature, and we will be using voice flow to make this work. And what voice flow does is now that we have the transcript, we can use this transcript, either manually or automatically, right? Through code, because they do have an API and were going to pass in our transcript into a knowledge base. And this is why it becomes super, super powerful.

39:17
Because now, users can ask questions from the video, ask the knowledgebase agent, a question, and based on the transcript data that it has for that video, itll essentially give you a summary or an answer for your question. And this is a solution that I found to help students better understand course material from, you know, course videos, right?

39:42
Because the problem now is, if theres a 2hour course, you have to watch the entire 2hour course to understand, or you're going to need to download the transcript. And now, you cant really do anything with that transcript, cuz. If you put it into chat. GBT, its going to scream at you, cuz, its too big, right?

39:57
You would have to create a data set, and maybe custom kind of train the bots, and then put all the data into that, its very timec consuming. So, if you use something like voice flow, you can upload all the data into the knowledge base, or you dont, you can use any AI you want, for that reason, its just, this agent, makes it super capable to give us relevant information or data from the transcripts.

40:20
And when you store it in that knowledge base, when students ask questions, they can directly ask the course module, I love the solution, right? So, yeah, thats what I thought, would be the solution to help out students even more. And thats why I felt this solution would be great. Okay, so, thats what happens during our AI process. Now, lets go back up right here.

40:42
And I'm, just going to create point number five, which is the AI process, I think, were probably going to be doing this asynchronously, right, and down here were going to update our NextJS entry, right, so, were going to make an, a call to next s, and pretty much update the processing entry to done processing. So, this is pretty much NextJS, right?

41:04
So, were not making the API request directly from here, because NextJS has access to all the credentials, right. So, were going to make a call to NextJS and were going to update the entry. And then our final step here is we need to delete the file from file storage, or from our file system. Thats pretty much it. That is the entire application. So, lets complete this diagram now.

41:27
So, what express is going to do here is once we have all the data coming from electron, its going to create writable streams, right, and put it into the file system. Okay, so its going to constantly update this and keep that file up to DAT. And once we close or stop the file, we will search for the file itself. And pretty much, you know, kind of remember where it is.

41:51
Then we will create a request to NextJS to create our processing entry in the database. Then, we will initialize the process. I mean, were also going to get a response back from NEXTJS, of course. So, well, get the response back saying, successful. Nice. And then, after that, were going to make a request to AWS. And pretty much start our AWS process to upload our video, our file, that we just got here into our S3 buckets.

42:16
And once that process is done, were going to start the AI part of our application, right, so, were going to send this file directly into the AI or our AI process, which will leverage whisper, AI, open AI and voice flow, then, were going to make another request to NEXTJS, just to update the data inside our database from processing to completed. And then, well, quickly delete this file from here. And thats pretty much it.

42:44
Now, where does Cloudfront come in handy? So, cloudfront is another feature inside AWS. So, technically, I dont know if its a standalone element, we should mention here, but what it helps, what it helps us accomplish is when our NEXTJS application needs to get this video from, our S3 bucket, were going to need to bypass our privacy Settings were not really bypassing, but all were doing is, were giving Cloudfront, the permissions to grab the video from AWS and stream it to our front end. So, thats pretty much it.

43:17
So, cloudfront, all its doing is, with the help of the permissions, we give it, its going to grab the specific video by the ID, from our AWS, right, from our S3 bucket. And all its going to do is help stream that video to our NEXTJS application, when our NEXTJS application requests for it. And thats, pretty much it.

43:37
So, throughout this video, if you are ever confused or lost, and you need some guidance, please reverse all the way back to this slide. And watch this entire module again, because you're going to understand how everything works under the hood. If you dont understand this part, nothing else will make sense. Okay, so, please watch this over and over again, until you understand the entire architecture. And only then will you move forward to the next stage.

44:04
Okay, now, I'm, super excited to this project already. So, lets jump straight, right into it. Hey, guys, hows it going?

Limited spots for prodigies university

44:10
Just real quick enrollment for Prodigies University to get lifetime access for a onetime fee, has finally begun Now, because we are offering lifetime access, and we also have weekly coaching calls inside. Prodigies University, we can only ever offer eight spots 2 to 3 months.

44:31
So, if you missed the opportunity to join today, you would have to wait for the next three months to join. And this price will never be the same. We increase the price, every enrollment period. Now, I do want to, let you know that the last time we did this, we ran out of spots in less than 3 minutes.

44:45
So, the possibilities are high, that you're probably not going to be able to apply to join inside Prodigies University today. But ILL, leave a link down below, or you can go to web, prodigy.com. You can see, if we have available a ability, and if not, no worries, you can always join the wait list.

45:00
So, in the next 3 months, again, when we start enrollment, you can join immediately because, well, send you a notification before we make the offer public. And another is, the unlimited lifetime access is only something were doing right now. So, if you're watching this video, maybe 2 years now, im sorry, we probably dont have unlimited lifetime access anymore. Okay, you can take a look at our website And ILL, probably give you more information.

45:22
So, if you want to join Prodigies University at our current lowest price, you can click the link in the description. Deson and get started. All right, guys, so grab your phone and open up this, link its a direct link into our discord channel for SAS business owners and SAS developers.

45:36
So, if you ever wanted to start your SAS, or learn how to make money through your code, this is the best opportunity for you to do so, because its completely free. Now, we have provided so many resources, different ways for you to get support. The first is a prodigy community itself. Theres so many SAS business owners in there, they can help you and give you the guidance.

45:57
And the other cool thing is you get a free coaching call from our team, and yours truly, every single month. Okay, we host these calls. We hang out in there. We just get to know you guys, and give you the support and guidance, you need to reach your goals. Okay, so just join this link. So, you can get assistance while you're building such powerful SAS applications. Okay, now, lets move on.

46:19
Now, the next amazing tool that were going to be using in todays project is Cursor is an AI powered code editor.

How to use Cursor AI IDE

46:26
It knows your codebase. So, you can ask it questions. It can also edit your code for you, based on prompts. So, you can literally tell it what to do. And it will type out the entire code.

46:37
And, my favorite part, which they actually havent mentioned anywhere in here, is, you can reference documentation from external websites. So, you can create a documentation composer, and you can kind of like mention it, like how theyre mentioning right here, and lets say, if you're using nextJS documentation, you could directly refer the documentation in here, and tell it to implement some of the features that were mentioned in the, in the documentation itself, and the AI will do it for you.

47:04
Now, this is really cool, were not sponsored by them, but we just want to show you the power of AI and the power of AI in web developments. So, you can go ahead and download it from here, and you can get started. And thats exactly what I'm doing. As well. If not, you can use visual studio code, no problem. Now, im also on the free tier. So, that should be fine.

47:25
And I think just for this project, the free tier is more than enough. So, the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to create a folder in here.

How to setup a nextjs 14 project with shadcn ui and tailwind

47:31
And I'm going to call it OPO Web prodigies, please use this exact naming convention. Then I'm going to drag and drop it into my cursor folder. Okay, my cursor window. And thats going to open up my project.

47:45
Now, we can open up the terminal, and we can use the following command to initiate a NextJS application. Now, im using BUN, you can use NPM you can pretty much use whatever you want, but ILL be using BUN in this project. Okay, so I'm going to say bun. X, create AppPP at latest space and put a period sign and hit enter. Okay. And thats going to install everything in this rout directory.

48:11
So first, for Typescript, yes. Yes. For Eslint. Yes, for tailwind, yes. For source, yes, for app router and were going to do no for this. And that should do that. Awesome. And now, you should have a folder structure just like this. And the next thing were going to need is shat ceni. Okay, so go ahead and say, U, bun, X, bun. And you can also copy it directly from Shaty. Nuui.

48:35
If you go to the documentation page, you can copy it right from here. Okay, so were going to say latest and chaten at latest and were going to say in it. And I think its saying, you can use D flag for defaults. Okay, so were just going to do this right now. And its going to install something for us real quick.

48:52
And I'm going to select New York and lets select neutral, and yes, for CSS variables. And thats pretty much it. And now, if you open up your folder structure, you should find a components. JSON file in here. Okay, so the next thing we need to do now is create the components folder.

49:09
And you actually dont have to do that directly in here, because we are going to use BUN to just install all the components all at once. So, we can say, bun, X, bun, shaten, at latest, add. And instead of button you're, just going to remove that and hit enter. Now, its going to add. Ask you, which components would you like to add, but were going to click on a, and thats going to select everything.

49:32
Okay, so click on a, on your keyboard and hit enter. And that will install all the components. Now, this is going to take a while if you're, not using BUN, but because I'm using BUN, I'm done in just a second. Okay, so thats why I love shat, CNII, with BUN, or just using BUN in general for development.

49:49
And now, if everything was successful inside your components folder, youll find a UI folder, which will have all the components that we need for our application. Now, the next thing is, please scroll to the description because all important links are going to be in the description. Okay, thats going to take you exactly to the pages that you need to land on. So, this is our Github repository, which of course, is completely free right now.

50:12
But if you want to monetize it, yes, you will need to purchase a license. Okay, so, this is strictly only for educational use. A lot of time and effort went into developing this. So if you want to support the channel, at the same time, you want to make money and leverage our code. And our, you know, pretty much our snippets for your SAS application. You can go ahead and go to Web Prodigy.com.

50:33
And you can purchase the license to monetize this code. Okay, but right now, its completely free to learn. So you can download it, test it, do whatever you want. And when you're ready, you can go grab that license. So first thing is scroll to the description, click on that link, its going to take you here. And I want you to go into the source folder.

50:50
And inside the app folder were going to get the CSS from here. And you're going to copy all the CS, CS and paste it into your CSS file. Okay, go ahead and do that. And I'm going to do it as well. Now, the reason is, because these are just colors, so were not going to waste even a single second just talking over, you know, each and every single thing of every single style here.

51:12
But basically, we just used, you know, shaans colors, and we just pasted it in here, right? So you can get it from Shaten, right in here. So, if you go to the, let me search if I can find it. Okay, its called theming. If you click on theming, or themes, actually, you can find everything in here. So, you can customize, select whatever color you want. I think we picked neutral. And we selected dark mode.

51:35
And then we hit copy code, and it gave us all the code we needed. Okay, so you can do something similar. And that way you save time, you see, we are pretty much using the same colors here. Okay, so, this can help you create custom themes for your application.

51:48
Now, the other things that we have down here, first, is, were setting a default background color, and were also applying the border color to our layers as well. Okay, so everything is going to have border, which is border, the new color we used. And then, for body, were going to send the background right here and text foreground, I think this stuff also comes with tailwind. So, you shouldnt worry about that.

52:12
But, the other thing that we added are these custom classes at the bottom. Okay, the first one is the fade layer. So, you can essentially create a really cool fade effect on right, on the right side, left side, or bottom and top corners of your, your images or div elements. So, it looks like its fading off into, you know, its just fading, all the elements, right? And this simple line of CSS can actually do it.

52:35
I remember in the last video, I used like a div and then put it to the left side, and then put another div on the right side to create a fade effect. But this is all you need to do, and that will do it for you. Okay, so this is that class right here. And then we have another mask image, which is very similar, but this is for an image, but its on the side. Okay.

52:55
So in instead of two, top, its two left, okay, were going to remove two variables. And thats pretty much it. And for radial, this is basically, where were having sort of a gradient color for a text color, for a text, for a piece of text on our UI? Okay, just some additional styling. You dont have to care, but I'm just explaining so you're not confused, where we got some random style random class names from. Okay.

53:20
And then finally, we have another gradient down here, which is to bottom. Okay. Thats pretty much it. The next thing is you're going to open up your folder, structure. You're going to scroll down to tailwind config. And this is basically a way to tell tailwind CSS about new class names or new colors you would like to create.

53:37
And if you take a look at our FigMA design, which we created in great detail, you can see all the, you know, the states and what we did for the colors, and stuff like that. We also have custom components that we used for this application, of course. So, this helped us design the application very quickly, and, and also have a standard, right?

53:58
Like, a standard set of colors and globals for our application, like font styling, and colors for the fonts and stuff like that. Okay, so, if you want to grab this as well, we are now giving away all the Figma designs. Theres a link in the description. She can grab it from there as well. Okay, so, first thing is, were going to go and grab all these colors from our tailwind config file.

54:20
And I just wanted to show you the FigMA design, because we did create some custom colors, like the border and some other elements inside our design. So, you see, we have some custom colors here, right? So, we just need to add those colors into our tailwind config file. And, once you copy that from the Github repository, you can replace everything inside your tailwind config file. Now, theres one problem here.

54:45
And the problem is, for some reason, shaTY and UI did not replace something here. I dont know what exactly is going on. I think its something to do right here. So, let me see if I can fix this. So, because were using Cursor AI, we might be able to leverage the AI to fix it directly in here. So, im going to click on this, and were going to take a look at what it says.

55:05
Okay, now, of course, I know the solution. And, I know why this error happened. But, if you do not know whats going on, then this can be a really powerful tool. This is why anyone can build web applications. Now, you dont even need to know code, because cursor AI can help you build everything. So, theres absolutely no excuse for you, not to own a SAS company. So, im going to go ahead and click on accept.

55:29
And that should import whatever I need Up top right here. And you can go ahead and accept this. All right. Awesome. Thats it. And, it made the change for me. So, im not going to have that error anymore. And for those of you who dont know what the error was, it was because we were using the CommonJS syntax to import a module in here.

55:47
Okay, but we were supposed to use the ES module syntax, which is import, right? I think its already an old story. I probably shouldnt be explaining this, but yeah, thats it. That was the answer here. And we just had to change that. And that fixed our problem. The next thing you're going to do is go into your, do get ignore, right here. Scroll down, and you're going to say env.

56:06
And now, were going to go into the Github again, and you're, going to copy the env. Example file in the root directory. Okay, and in here, you're, going to create that environment file, and you can now paste all of these variables directly in here.

Neon Database setup in Nextjs

56:22
Now, the next thing were going to need for our application is a powerful database. And today were going to be using Neon. Neon is a Cloudbased postgress database.

56:33
It offers autonomous scaling, where you dont have to do a single thing. And your database will automatically scale based on the traffic that your application generates. And they also have some advanced branching features. So you can create CICD pipelines, and you can keep track of changes that are made to the database schema, super powerful stuff here. And we need to support this company, guys, because they are supporting us as well.

56:56
And the best part is they have a completely free tier that you can use to get started with your projects. Unlike other database providers, where you need to give a credit card. Neon, does not require this. So, if you are just getting started with your SAS application, this is the best way to do so. So, if you click on the link in the description, its going to take you directly to this page.

57:18
And, if it doesnt, all you have to do is log in and then go into your root dashboard. Okay. And then in here, go ahead and put the project name, and please call it Opal. DweB prodigies. And down here for the database itself. So, this is the project. This is the database name, okay, just going to call it Opal. And, you dont have to set up anything else. Just go ahead and click on. Create project.

57:41
And thats it. You can go into your environment file, and you can paste your postgress link, just like this, and check it out. I think it already gave me something. Oh, thats weird. I think its trying to autofill it for us, but I think its looking at other stuff and kind of giving us placeholders. But, yeah, thats pretty much it. So, I just copied the key from here, and I just pasted it inside my codebase.

58:04
Now, that we have our database set up, we need a way to communicate with the database. And, the best way to do this is using Prisma. So, go ahead and say, bun X or bun add. I think this is the command. Sorry about that. So, say Bunad, prisma and go ahead and hit enter. And next were going to need a way to handle users in our application. So, we will be using clerk authentication.

58:29
So, go ahead, scroll to the bottom, and click the link in the description. Thats going to take you to this exact page. And then you can go right into your dashboard. If you have already used clerk, you can essentially click on your organization, and then you can click on create application right here. And again, I'm, just going to call this opal web prodigies, just like how we did on other platforms as well.

58:50
And im going to turn off email, because we only need Google authentication for this project. And go ahead and click on, create application. And thats pretty much it.

Clerk Authentication

59:00
Now, clerk immediately tells you exactly what you need. Okay, so, thats why this really helps when you are a developer, and you dont want to care about stuff, like authentication in your application, right?

59:11
So, what im going to do here is I'm going to copy this, and I'm going to say, BUN, add and paste this command and hit enter. And I'm going to copy my environment variables. I'm going to go into myV file. And, when I find the clerk, publishable key, right here, I'm going to replace this with the following keys that I just got.

59:30
Next, you want to copy the middleware, typescript file, and im going to open up my folder structure. And in the root of my folder, which is inside the source folder, I'm going to create a middleware, do Typescript file. And inside this, I'm going to paste whatever I just copied from clerk authentication. Next, were going to make a, a quick upgrade to this.

59:50
So, were going to say const is protected routes and were going to set it equal to the create route matcher, which comes from clerk authentication, and were going to invoke this and pass in an array. And this array is essentially all the paths that you want to validate against. Okay, so, you see how a cursor AI is already giving you a bunch of stuff, but, we already did it here.

1:00:12
So, it knows exactly what to put, but we dont need it. So, were going to use some custom stuff, right? So, in here, im going to hit enter. And the first thing im going to put is the following. So, im going to say, slash dashboard, open these parentheses, say dot and star. So everything after this is technically a protected route. And then we have the API. So, API payment.

1:00:33
And finally, our next route is anything after payment as well. Okay. And you want to move this right above the clerk, middleware. And now, in here, you're going to get access to a call back. So were going to get this right here and were going to destructure off and request. And this is going to be an async call back function. So, lets get that as well.

1:00:53
And now, we have to say, if protect, protected, were going to pass in the request, and then were going to say, O, protect. So, you see how its giving us everything. So, I dont have to do a lot of stuff, right?

1:01:05
So, right here, of course, we dont, need the URL were just going to say, if is protected for request, then in here were going to say off like this were going to invoke it and were going to get protect from this. And invoke that as well. Okay, so, looks like I made an error, lets just quickly fix that with cursor ai. All right, awesome. Awesome. And now, im going to open up my folder structure.

1:01:27
I'm going to go into app right here. And you're going to find a layout page. And in this page, were going to do a bunch of setup for our application. So, the first thing is, we dont need all the stuff here. I dont even need why. We, I mean, I dont know why this is here. So, im going to remove this. And for metadata, im going to pass an opal.

1:01:45
And im going to say shared AI powered videos with your friends. Okay, awesome. So, they were using another font and were not going to be using that. And thats why we had that issue, right? We deleted that. So, we have to create our own. So, to create a font, we have to say, const men. Rope equal to men, rope, like this. And you want to invoke it. And im just using cursor ai.

1:02:07
So its giving me all the autofill. And, of course, you need to import this as well. And of course, cursor AI can help you with that as well, right? So, once thats done importing, you have to provide the subsets. So were going to say subsets, latin, just like this. Now, you want to go down here, and you're, going to change this to body tag. And you're, going to pass in. Men.

1:02:26
Rope, like this, do class name. And you're going to set the background to this following style. Okay, this exact color. And then you're, just going to render out all the children inside this. Now, clerk tells us to put the clerk provider around this application. I'm going to grab the clerk provider as well, and lets quickly import it. And im going to wrap my entire application inside this provider.

1:02:49
Next, im going to go into Shaten, because I need to also wire up themes into my application, right? This is only if you need it, its not really a compulsion, but im going to do it right now. So that, that way you guys can set it up if you want, right? So, open up the, let me open this like this. So you guys can see.

1:03:07
So, im going to go into documentation and im going to click on theming, actually, sorry, guys, click on dark mode. I wish they actually put this under theming. It doesnt make any sense to have it separately, but im going to click on the Nextjs. Im going to copy this command in bun. And I'm going to open up the terminal. I'm going to paste that and hit enter. And thats going to install next themes for us.

1:03:30
Okay, so now, you want to copy this component. Theyre telling you to copy here. This is a provider. Okay. And this provider is used, used by Shaten, to essentially change the themes or the class names. Okay, so its basically wired up with tailwind. So, go into your folder structure. And inside the components folder, were just going to create theme like this.

1:03:50
And inside that an index, TSX, and all were going to do is just paste whatever we just copied inside this file. So, you see its just wrapping the theme provider, and its passing all the children elements inside it. So, that way, we can control the theme of the application. Okay, so lets go back to the root file, which is our root layout. TSX. And now, after the body tag right here.

1:04:14
So before the children elements were just going to hit enter and were going to wrap this, this theme provider that we just created. Okay, so let me move this up. Top right here. And also import the component. Sl themes component. And put the children component inside the theme provider itself. Okay, so now, I think its a good time to open up our terminal and say, BUN. RuneV. And now, I'm going to open up local host.

1:04:40
I remember Someone asked me this question, and I was so confused, but guys, you need to first make a request to the server to get something correct. So, you have to look up local host in order to see what you want. Okay, which is see your application first. So, by default, I remember in one of our past projects I taught you guys how to use a local host in HTTPS. Thats why its defaulting to HTTPS.

1:05:04
But I'm just going to use HTTP right here. And that should open up everything. Now, of course, its going to look like this, because we have hardcoded some stuff, but dont worry, were going to fix this real quick. So, now, im going to go into the page. TSX file, which is right here. And I'm simply just going to remove everything from here, except for this main. Okay, so remove everything.

1:05:23
Keep the main, al, remove this footer. And I dont even need the class name. So, im going to remove that one as well. And as you can see, I'm rendering the root page, TSX, right? But now I want to create a better folder structure. Because right now, this page, TSX does not tell other developers what it does, of course, its the root page, but WED, like to give more structure and meaning to our codebase.

1:05:45
So, I'm going to create a route group here called website. And inside this, im going to create our page. TSX, you can just drag and drop it in here and say move.

How to build a landing page using Relume AI

1:05:55
Okay. And you can also update all the imports. So, say always like this. Hey, guys, hows it going? This is paren here from the future.

1:06:03
So, in this section of the video, we essentially skipped the landing page, because I received a lot of feedback from you guys, saying you want to focus on more important aspects of the project. So, for that reason, I also want to show you how you can, you know, not spend too much time, and still build a website in less than 10 minutes. Okay, this is a super cool way to leverage AI.

1:06:27
And, no, were not going to be using chat. GBT, I promise you. This is something thats genuinely impressive. So, lets go ahead and see how you can build a website, leveraging AI, and then well, proceed with the video. The tool that we will be using to make this work is Reloom. Now, reloom is not a sponsor of this video.

1:06:45
I just believe in Reloom so much because IVe been using them for a very long time, including all the students inside. Prodigies University Vom leverages AI to essentially create sit maps for your website. And it can also get you the wireframes for the website instantly done. Okay. And their next thing, their next objective is essentially to also leverage AI to create a UI style guide.

1:07:09
Okay, so I think theyre also go going to pretty much get into the styling of the website as well, which is really, really cool. But so far, these two features itself is more than enough because once you have the wireframes, all you have to do is put a little bit of thinking. And in just a few minutes, you can get everything up and going. So, go ahead and scroll to the description.

1:07:29
You're going to find a link, and this is my affiliate link. If you want to support me. If not, no worries, just go ahead and look up Reloom, and then go ahead and create an account. So, IVE already created an account, but before you do, its, going to take you to a page that looks like this. And I just want to point out that Reloom is completely free to get started.

1:07:47
So, this is really nice, and this is why I want to support them. And now, you should be redirected into your dashboard, and im going to go ahead and click on new project. And its going to require me to essentially put a, a prompt in here. So, im going to say a web application, so, a web application that allows users to share to record and share videos instantly with their prospects.

1:08:20
Okay, I think this is nice, and also lets not forget, with the power of AI. Okay, now you can select the number of pages, I'm just going to keep it at 1 to five, because I just want to show you like a demo. And then im going to go ahead and click on site map. Now, if you dont know what a site map is, its essentially the skeleton for your website. This is super important, okay?

1:08:44
Because before you create the website, you want to know which sections you need to create. Okay, and you can also leverage AI like chat. GPT to make this work, but they do it directly in here. Thank its super nice. Okay. And once this is done, again, you can click on each section. You can rename it. You can redo each individual section as well.

1:09:03
And, you can tell it to continue generating all the content for all the other websites as well. Okay, and once you're done with the sit map, once you're satisfied, you can go ahead and click on the wireframes page. And, this is going to essentially instantly spin up a design for your website. Now, this is not the design itself, this is what we call wireframes. Okay, sorry about that.

1:09:23
And what a wireframe mean means is essentially just what the website could look like, right? Its not the final product, its what you can send over to your client to get an approval. So, thats why you have this share button right here, and you can send this to your clients. And only once they approve, should you move forward in the development process?

1:09:43
Okay, never move forward without getting their word on the design, or without getting any approval on code, or features, etc. Okay. So, once this is done, guys, what you could do is you can open up Figma. So, IVE already opened up Figma right here. And you want to open this, click on this button right here, and look for a plugin called Reloom. Okay. And once you click on that, its going to show a popup.

1:10:08
And its going to essentially ask you to connect your Reloom account. So, go ahead and connect the account. IVE already done it, and IVE already built another project and dragged and dropped the wireframe in here, and ILL tell you how to do that as well. Okay, so once you do that, and once you click on the ROM, the re loom project, plugin, its going to take you into this page.

1:10:28
And down here, you see, I have the project, I'm going to click on that, and I can see the sit map and the wireframe. So, if you click on, add wireframe, its going to instantly do some crazy AI stuff. And its going to build out the full wireframe inside your figma file. Okay. And the cool thing is, it also wires it up with text styles, and, you know, reusable colors.

1:10:50
So, you dont, have to go crazy trying to build the entire standards file. And they also have a free kit that you can use as a starter kit. And you can, I mean, it, it looks decent to me. I havent used it in the past, but essentially, you can use the wireframes that theyre giving you and use their starter kit. And, you can essentially leverage all the styling that they create.

1:11:11
Okay, so now, once this is done, were going to click on the plugins again, and were going to click on builder I. Okay. And, builder IIO is essentially going to ask you to log in or maybe create an account. But, I dont think I have to do it. But, if you have to go ahead and do that as well, and then make sure you click on the frame. Okay. So, click on this one right here.

1:11:31
And then you're going to find a button here called generate code. So, go ahead and click on this as well. And thats going to take you into a tab that looks like this. Okay, theyre going to show you the responsive view and the regular view of your website as well. Okay, so you can take a look at whatever you want. I just want to show you, you know, the capabilities.

1:11:49
Im not really going to focus on design. But once you are done designing, of course, dont, do it right away, right? The wireframes are not the design, you want to finish creating your designs, and colors, themes, all that kind of stuff, make it pretty much like the final products, right? And once you're done with that, only, then use builder. Io. And once you do builder. Io, you can essentially click on JSX down here.

1:12:12
And its going to spit out a, a Javascript component, a React component, essentially. So you can copy all of this. And you can go into your project and paste it. Thats pretty much it. The other thing that I thought was really annoying is this name tag, right? You probably dont need this. I think this was like an ID, or, I think this is because they using something called use styles here.

1:12:34
Im, not entirely sure what this is or why they have this. Its probably an ID, right? But we, we dont really need it because its also using tailwind CSS under the hood. Okay. So lets go ahead and put this into our project. So, I can show you what that would look like. So, im going to go back to our website and lets go ahead and paste this. And IVE also removed that, that variable, right?

1:12:56
And that weird, actually, I did not remove it. I didnt remove it from everything. I removed it from some of them. But thats pretty much it, guys. It will put your, your website inside. I mean, it will give you the website in tailwind and table and then JSX. So, you can just paste it into your project And you're all set. Thats literally it.

1:13:16
Okay, so, if you need to spin up an MVP as fast as possible, this is the fastest way to do it. Okay. Now, of course, theres a lot of things that are missing here. I mean, theres literally no images in here. And the reason because it was using a placeholder.

1:13:30
Okay, so just go ahead and fill in the placeholder, the text, or, I mean, the titles, whatever you need, and you can proceed that way, or you can just proceed with the video, which is, were just going to have a nav bar on the top. Thats going to allow the user to log into the application. All right, awesome. Hopefully, you loved this AI feature, because I think this is really cool.

1:13:50
And inside our website page, were also going to create another layout, TSX, just like this, and this layout, TSX is going to wrap our page, tsX, which is the website right here. Okay, so first thing were going to do is, were going to return a component. So, I'm just going to use the snippets And im going to call this layout component. And in here, im going to grab the children.

1:14:12
So, im going to say, children from React, react Node, and down here, I'm going to destructure and grab the children elements as well. And here you can see it says layout. This is exactly what we want. But now going to create a div, say flex. Flex. Das, column. Py, of 10. Padding, x of 10 From extra large devices. Well, set padding, x to zero. And well, add our container class in here.

1:14:37
And now we can pass in our children, components inside this. And in our page, tsX, I'm just going to call this a page, so I can see whats going on. All right, awesome. There we go. Now, the first component were going to create in here is called landing page. Navbar. Just like this. Okay, so open up your folder structure. You're going to create another folder in here called components.

1:14:58
And inside this, you're going to create the Navb bar TSX. And you can use the snippet again to import this component, right? Like a template. And were going to say, landing page. Navar, were going to change everything in here, right? So, lets go back and quickly import this component. Awesome. And now we can go back in here and make the changes we need.

1:15:17
Now, the first thing I did is I also swap to Safari, because I think I had a plugin in the old browser and was just acting weird. So, I'm switching to Safari here. But I dont think you should see this problem, right? Because clearly we mentioned the default theme is dark. I dont know why its really doing that. But now, everything should be working perfectly.

1:15:34
Now, our landing page is going to have class names for this. So were going to say flex with full justify between like this items. Das center and inside this, were going to create another div. And this is going to have the following class name. So were going to say text, 3x, font, d, semi, bold, flex, I, it. Center, and gap, D, X3.

How to build prisma schemas and models

How to build a dashboard layout in nextjs

Building a responsive sidebar in nextjs

useQueryData hook

creating and optimized search feature in nextjs

useMutationData hook

Inviting users into the workspace

Creating an InfoBar

My library page

useZodForm hook

Our Magical Form generator component

Create folders for videos

ReactQuery detailed explanation

How to renders videos inside a folder (folders route)

Videos Component

How to move videos from one folder into another

11:13:19
Okay.

1:15:57
And now in here, you can put whatever you want, and its going to show on the screen. So, first thing is we need a menu bar, right? So were going to import this menu bar icon, which comes from lucid React. So, scroll down, and hopefully, we can find menu icon. Let me see if I can import that. Okay, awesome. Okay, so I imported it from Lucid React.

1:16:20
And now its going to render out this for us on the page. Okay, next were going to create an image here. So im going to import the image tag, which comes from NextJS. So next image, and set the alt equal to logo. Were going to set the source. And the source here is going to be op. LogosVG. And, of course, we dont have this. And ILL get to that in just a second.

1:16:43
And im going to change the width and height to 40. Okay. And the next thing im going to do here is im going to open up my Github. And im going to go into the public folder. And I want you to download all of these pictures and drag and drop it into, into your public folder right here. Okay, so, we need the opal logo here and the snippet, which we can use for the landing page.

1:17:07
Okay, im not going to actually focus too much on the landing page this time, because its really a waste of time. IVE done it for, you know, every single project. So, you guys can, you know, make it look as pretty as you want, but im going to focus more on functionality. Okay. But, well, come back to the landing page later on when we have time, so we can add more designs to it. Okay.

1:17:27
But, yeah, make sure you get these two images in here. Next, after this image here, I'm going to say opal just like this. And thats how we create the title. And you can also change this from 6 to 8, if youd, like just to have a slightly bigger Navar. Okay. And, of course, you can hide it on mobile devices, but I'm just going to keep it like this for now.

1:17:47
Next, after this were going to create another div. And the div is going to have hidden gap, x of 10, item, center, and flex from large devices. Okay, and inside this div were going to have the link, which is the login link, or sorry, the home link. This is the nav bar, right? So, go ahead and say link like this and import it from next link.

1:18:06
And, as you can see, its giving us a bunch of snippets So, all we have to do is change this. I'm just going to say home here. And for this one, I'm going to set it to pricing. And the reason why we dont see this is, because were on small devices. So, if you increase the screen width, you will now see the navar. Okay, and we have a container in here.

1:18:22
So, everything is going to be contained, but I'm just going to shrink it for now. Okay. And then, for the homepage, so, since were not really focusing on that, I think we can first finish this part here. So, change this to contact like this. And now, here were going to pass in the HRE. So, okay, HF is already passed. And so were good to go.

1:18:42
So, I think the cursor AI already handled that were going to were going to need a class name. So, from, for some styles were going to say, Bg, were going to pass in this color code, were going to say, padding, y of two, adding x, ofi font, semi bold, text, large, rounded, full hover background, and were going to pass in this color, and were going to have some opacity on it.

1:19:04
Okay, so that means the element is selected, or actually its hovered. So when you're hovering over something, then were going to turn that on. Okay, so, you see its changing the color. Now, after this div here were going to create one more link. So, copy this link from here, and you can paste this link down here. And im going to change this to login.

1:19:21
And just to make my life easier, im going to put a button element in here. So, im going to change this to button, like this, and import it from components. UI, and lets also close this and bring the login inside this. Now, also, dont forget to remove this landing page. Navar, just causing some problems. All right, awesome. So, lets shrink this screen, and now you can see the login button.

1:19:43
So, go ahead and change this href to au signin. And now, when the user clicks on this page, its going to take them to the signup page. Okay, so authentication. Basically, im also using a user icon. So, you can import this user icon. And it comes from, lucid reacts as well. Just put it in here and give it a fill. Okay. And im going to say login in here.

1:20:04
And thats pretty much it were done with this Nav bar. So, if I click on login, its going to take me to A44 page, because the AU signin page does not actually exist. Okay, so, lets go ahead and set that up. So, inside your app folder, you're going to create another folder in here called O. And inside O, you're going to create a callback route.

1:20:22
And this call back route is what CLer Authentication will send a an API call to let us know that everything is successful, right? Remember? So, if you go back to the diagram, this is going to make sense now. And then im also going to say sign in right here. And we need one more route. So, this route is going to be called signup.

1:20:41
And of course, for all of this, were also going to have a layout page. So, create a layouts. TsX, and we can wrap everything inside this. Okay, so in here, I'm just going to use Typescript, the snippets And right here, first thing we need is children.components. And because im using this, I think I can just grab it from here. Awesome, nice. And I can destructure children from here as well.

1:21:05
And now I can use the children, the children prop, right? In here, lets go ahead and pl in. Pass in the class name, were going to say container, height of screen, flex. Justify center, and lets go to that page. Actually, okay, were not going to see anything, because we dont have the signin. So, let me go into sign in and create a page. I think we have to do something else. Not page, guys.

1:21:27
Sorry about this. So lets delete this, go inside, sign in, and you're going to create another folder. You're going to put two brackets like this. Okay. You're going to use the spread operator and pass in sign in. Okay. And in here, you're going to create the page. TSX. And I'm just going to return a basic component right here that says sign in component. Okay, sign in just like this, and now lets go back.

1:21:51
So now you can see the sign in clearly, right, so, in our layout page, now, we can make the design changes, and we can see it in real time. And we also need item center on this class. So, now, everything is perfectly centered. Okay, so, our elements will be right in the center of the screen.

1:22:06
So, go back into the sign in route, and were going to remove what were returning here and were going to return the signin component or not. The signin button. Sorry, were going to return the signin component itself from clerk. JS. Okay, so lets go ahead and import this one, like this sign in, and thats it. Now, we are done with the signin page. So, lets also quickly finish up the signup page.

1:22:29
So, in here, all I'm going to do is create another folder and were going to say, signup and create a page. TSX. And all I'm going to do is now, instead of the sign up, signin page, or signin component, im going to return the sign up component. Okay, also, just to show you the protected route, if I try to access something like dashboard, well, I actually dont have it right now.

1:22:51
But if I try to, its going to send me back to the sign in page, if im not signed in. Okay, thats why we did that middleware setup. So, now is a good time to create our dashboard route. So, I'm going to open up the rot of the app. And im going to create a folder itself, called dashboard, like this.

1:23:09
And inside this, I'm going to create a page, tsX, and were also going to create another one, which is a dynamic route called workspace ID. And this workspace ID is essentially, when the user opens a specific workspace, well, send them into that page. Okay. But lets understand what happens inside this page. TSX. So, inside this page were going to do the following. So, first thing is we need to authenticate the user, right? So, authentication.

1:23:35
So, once we do get the authentication, and we check, the user is authenticated, we also want to check if the user already has an account. So if accounts exist, then what were going to do is just redirect them, right. So pretty much just send them to the right page. But if the account does not exist, then were going to need to create the account in the database.

1:23:58
If you remember the diagram, remember, I told you, once we get the response back from clerk were going to need to update this, right Were going to need to put their data into the database, essentially, right? And we get that from the call back routes. And right, after this, well, go ahead and create that call back as well, right? Remember, we created it right here. So, well, build that out.

1:24:16
But thats what were doing in here. So, now, lets go ahead and create that authentication functionality. Now, we can do this using AIO, or making an API request, or creating an API endpoints in here. But we like to leverage server actions to make this work. And if you are been a part of this channel, youll know that we absolutely love server actions.

1:24:38
Okay, so were going to do that by creating our actions folder, inside our source folder right here. Okay, so, you want to say actions. And inside this, were going to create a user Typescript file. And now, to create a user action, we need to first have a file thats set, as used server. And you can see it literally shows right here, right? So, I'm just going to hit tab. But we dont need this.

1:25:01
I'm just going to remove it. Okay. So, go ahead and type this with me. So, were going to say export const on authenticated user, or on authenticate user, this is fine as well. Were going to create an async function. And next were going to create a tr catch block. So, im going to import that as well. And now, to get the user, we need to say const user equal, await current user, which comes from clerk.

1:25:24
Nextjs s server. And then, if theres no user were going to throw an error, right, saying user not found or even better, we can return a status of 403. So, what im going to do here is replace this with 403 instead. Okay. Next, we want to make sure the user exists. So, im going to hit tab here. You see it, this is really helping me a lot.

1:25:45
But essentially, what were going to do is, were, were going to need to go into the database and find for this exact user to check if the user exists. But now, we cant do this, because we did not set up Prisma completely, right? We got the database, but we have to set up our Prisma schema, and our Prisma client. So, now is the time for us to go ahead and set that up.

1:26:06
So, I just deleted this, whatever I just created, I'm going to go into the libs folder. I'm going to create a Prisma Do Typescript file. And in here, I'm going to import Prisma Client from Prisma client like this. Next, I'm doing this, because I dont want Prisma client to keep reinitiating on the hot reload. So, I'm going to declare global, and I'm going to save our Prisma clients, set it to. Undefined.

1:26:29
Were going to export the DB itself. This is what we need. So, I'm going to call this client. Actually, this is better. And lets set this here as well. So were going to say client equal global, this Prisma or new Prisma clients. Okay, and then were going to check the node environment if it is Production, then were going to set global this Prisma to that client. Okay, now we dont have this installed, of course.

1:26:54
So, lets go ahead and open up our terminal and were going to say, bunad at Prisma Client. And awesome, just like that. Now, we have Prisma Client installed. So, now, we can go back to our file. And we can pretty much use that client that we just created, just like this, right? But now we need to first create some sort of schemas for our, for our data.

1:27:14
Or else, we cannot say client, user, thats not possible, right? So, this is what you're going to do. You're going to open up your terminal again. And you're going to say, BUN, X, prisma in it, and you're going to hit enter. And just like that, A Prisma file is created for us in the root directory. And we can also see, you know, any other setup that is done for us, right? So, this is good.

1:27:37
This is pretty much saving us some time. So, lets go ahead and now create our user model or modal, I said modal. All right, guys. So, first thing is modal, were going to set it to model, were going to set it to user. And this is what the schema is going to look like.

1:27:53
So, I dont want to spend too much time explaining what all of this is, but just to give you an idea, because I know a lot of you guys are still beginners and sas, and you want to understand how everything works. So, ILL, try my best to explain. Okay, so its very simple. This is just think about it like a table, right?

1:28:10
Were creating the rows in the table, where the columns in the table, so were telling, this table called user is going to have the following data, right? Its going to be a type of ID. Its going to have a string, were going to set it to a ID type. And the default for this were going to use DB. ID. Okay, so, well, go ahead and grab this as well. Okay, it is DB generated.

1:28:34
Gener generated random UU ID. Okay. These are just syntax, stuff, guys. You dont have to focus on this. Okay, dont focus too much. Its just syntax, just memorize and understand whats going on in here. All right. Thats pretty much it. And then the next thing is, you see how cursor is giving us a bunch of stuff that we can use, right? So, this is really powerful.

1:28:54
So, if I hit tab, I'm going to have some things that I might need from here. So, first, the clerk ID, I'm going to change this to clerk. ID, just like this. Were going to set it to a string. Were going to set it to unique as well. And we also need the created and updated daytime. You can put that in here if you want as well.

1:29:11
So thats, it were creating the columns, right Were telling what this column is, which is its an ID of type string. With this specific type of, you know, whether its, a number string or whatever that is, right Thats what were passing it in here. And thats it, same thing for clerk. ID, same thing for, created at. And of course, theres more to this. So were going to go ahead and create that as well.

1:29:33
Okay, so the first thing is, every user is going to have a type of media setting. Remember, for Electronjs were going to need to know which mic or camera or screen the user prefers. So we need to create another model to store that data as well. So, I'm going to say model, media. And this is going to have an ID, which is a string. Were going to have the screen itself, which is also a string.

1:30:02
We need the mic. We need the camera as well. And then were going to have something called preset. And this preset is going to give our users the ability to select between high definition or low def. Okay. So, right now, were going to create an enum called preset in here. So we can give it these two values. So, were kind of hardcoding it.

1:30:23
That way, when we get type intelligence, we know exactly which value can only be passed into the database, when were creating stuff. Okay. And again, these are controlled by different tiers. So, if the user is under a paid tier, then we will have only, I mean, we can give access to high definition, right? If not, were giving the low def one. All right, next, were going to need to connect this media to this user.

1:30:47
So, ID, like for you to take up a challenge, pause this video and try to do some research to see how to create a foreign key in one table and connect it to another table Using Prisma. All right, awesome. Hopefully, you got the right answer. If you didnt, no problem, im going to show you exactly what to do. So, were going to set this to studio, because thats what were going to call it in here.

1:31:11
And were going to refer this media, right here, the media model, and were going to set it down here. Okay, so thats what were doing, essentially saying studio refers to this type of data. And the, the user is going to have the studio settings, thats, pretty much it. Okay. And now, down here, we also have to link this back into this user table. And the syntax for that right here is as follows.

1:31:36
So, first, we have to show which field are we going to need from here, to connect the user. And that field is called user ID. And this is going to be a string as well. And this string, of course, is going to be unique, and its going to be DB, UU ID. Okay, thats, how were connecting this.

1:31:54
And now, we have to pass in that the connection and say, which field are we trying to connect in here? That refers to this ID from here. Okay. Also, guys, please do not make any spelling errors. If you want to save time, just go to Github, and copy this and paste it. Its totally fine. All right, I'm, just here to explain and help the other people who dont understand whats going on. Okay, thats literally it.

1:32:17
And im not going to explain every single thing, cuz, we need to speed up. Theres a lot of stuff we need to do, okay, but, yeah, right here, all were going to say, is, were going to say, user, like, this, were going to set it to this specific model type right here. User. And its relations is the fields, this field right here, user ID, and it references this ID in the user table, thats it.

1:32:39
So thats how we create a foreign key. Okay, thats how we can create relationships between tables. And you can also create many to one, all that kind of stuff, too. You can create arrays here, right. So, you can say multiple media settings in here as well, whatever you want. But I just want to show you how this works. All right, next thing is, I'm going to create another model here called workspace.

1:32:59
And this is going to have the following type of data. So, first, were going to need an ID, the name. And since each user can also have workspaces, right, were going to say workspace, and set it to an array of workspaces because one user can have multiple workspaces, okay, so were going to create multiple here, right? And thats, how were linking it, right here were saying, user, and the relation is with this field right here.

1:33:25
And it references this ID field right here. Now, theres another enum, we have to create in here. And this enum is called type. So lets go ahead and create that as well. So lets say, enum type is going to be personal and public, because there are different type of workspaces, right, we have public and personal workspaces So, thats, why were providing that in here?

1:33:43
Okay, so now I have showed you everything, so now im not going to sit and type every single thing. Im going to leverage what IVE already done inside the Github. And then, well, walk through every single thing. Okay, okay, so this is the new updated schema. So, please go into Github, copy the schema, and paste it in here, and follow along with me.

1:34:16
Okay, so we finished workspaces Next is each user can also have multiple videos that are assigned to them. And the video model is going to look like this down here, were going to have ID, title, description, the source, right, were going to have created ATS were going to have the folder that it belongs under, were going to have the folder ID as well, because thats how we are linking it.

1:34:38
And now, since this is a different type, again, of course, were going to need another model right here, right. So, we created one more model called folder. And this is going to have ID name created at, and the workspace, it belongs to. Okay. And the workspace ID as well. And videos right here. And then down here were going to also link the user with the user ID, right? Same thing.

1:35:01
And each video can also be processing, remember this. So when we were explaining the architecture, I mentioned the processing part, right? This is what that does. And then this also belongs to a workspace. So were going to create the relation here and pass in the work, workspace ID, then views for each video. And the summary, okay, I made a spelling error here, but thats fine. And thats it for videos.

1:35:24
Okay, so lets go back up top and then lets understand subscriptions So subscriptions is going to look as follows. So were going to have the ID again, the user and the user ID. So, we can link a subscription to a specific user. And theres only one subscription, right? So thats why its not an array, its just one right here. And then were going to have the plan.

1:35:44
And their plan is essentially a, a different type, right, A different enum, which is pro and free plan. And thats the only plans that our application is offering right now, you can custom customize it, but were just going to say free as default. Okay. And then we need the customer ID and the updated ads. So, this actually comes from stripe. All right, were getting stripe stuff and storing it in our database.

1:36:06
Next, the exact same thing for members. So users and members right here are also a way to essentially show which, which member is assigned to the specific user accounts. So, you see, we have the member table, right? So each workspace, so lets go back to workspace, right, each workspace is going to have a bunch of members and a member is nothing else, but a user.

1:36:29
So when you when we first created the workspaces right here, we created the member, then we created these specific types. So let me scroll down, which is ID, user ID, and stuff like this. Because, remember, a member is a user. And thats why we have to create this relation right here as well. Okay, so dont think that, okay, the user goes into the member. I mean, yes, they do technically, but a user is a member.

1:36:55
Thats why its a relation right here. Okay. So more specifically speaking, the member is a part of a workspace, okay. And a member is nothing else, but a user. So users are members. Thats why we have that connection there. Next, we have notifications pretty same. I mean, pretty similar. I'm not going to explain that. Then we have invites, which is again, the exact same thing.

1:37:17
We just have another model, and we have a bunch of data stored in there. And we have the receiver, which, which is, you know, someone whos sending it, and the person whos receiving this invite as well, and were passing the same type of model in here. And then we have the trial. Okay, this is just going to help us understand if the user is on a trial period or not.

1:37:35
And the reason why we need this is, I think we can leverage this when were using AI features. Right? So, in your, in our express backend, that time. Okay, that took a very long time, but I just wanted to help you out. So, I pretty much dont have to do it ever again. Okay, so now, you know what a Prisma schema means, its just its literal English, right?

1:37:56
You can read it and understand what it is. And because you're, using cursor you dont need my help anymore. Just doubleclick this. Click on chat and just ask it a question, right? So, what is media or how are things connected? And it will give you an Indepth explanation of how your codebase works. And it will pretty much break it down for you.

1:38:15
So, once you're, done with this, open up your folder structure, you're going to say Bun X, prisma generate, and you want to hit enter. And next, you want to say Bun X, prisma DB, push, and hit enter. Okay. And thats going to push all of our schemas and the data to our database. Awesome.

1:38:31
Now, to confirm that everything is working, one thing is you can go into neon tech, and take a look at any changes that were made, or you can also use B, bun, X Prisma Studio. And as you can see right here, we have a bunch of models that were created. Awesome. Now, lets move on to our authentication part.

1:38:50
So, now, we want to say const user exists, right So user exists, like that, and were going to go into client, user, find unique, where their email is, actually, we dont need this, we can use a clerk ID itself, right? So, im going to say where clerk ID is, like the user ID. And we want to include the following data, which is the workspace itself, and for this specific user.

1:39:14
So, when we create, I mean, when were looking for the user, if the user exist were going to get this data along with that. Next, if the user exists, then were going to send a status of 200 and were going to also return the user data itself. Now, if thats not the case, then we need to create the user data. And just taking a look at how intelligent cursor AI is. This is insane.

1:39:35
Like, I dont, have to even do anything, but, I'm just going to say, were going to create the new data here, but we also need some extra information. So, lets go ahead and pass that in as well. So, we passed in the clerk ID, but then we also want to pass in the users first name and last name. Okay, so go ahead and pass it in as well.

1:39:54
Next, the avatar image also comes back from the user data, right? So, were going to pass in the user data in here. Next, for our studio settings, were going to create an empty object, right? And just store it like this. And, of course, for subscriptions were just going to click on. I mean, were just going to enter create, and this will use all the default values, right?

1:40:13
So, now the user has a free plan by default. And then we need to create a workspace, but by default, every workspace a user gets, once they sign, sign into the application is considered a personal workspace. So were going to put their personal name, right? So, first name, comma apostrophe s workspace. So, for example, web prodigies is workspace, or parents, workspace, okay. And the type is personal.

1:40:38
Next, once all of this is completed, were going to include the following data. So, were going to get the workspace, where the user, for the user, where the users clerk ID is like this user ID. And I think you actually dont have to do this, you could just return workspace true. But, since I have it in the code, like this, im just going to type it like this for now, right?

1:40:58
So, you can technically just change this to true, I think its the same thing. And finally, we also have to return the subscription plan, right? So, were going to return their subscription plan and were going to select plan and get all the information in that. All right, done. So, were going to scroll to the bottom here, and im actually going to remove this 200 response right here, because I have to do something else.

1:41:17
So, if the new user was successful, were going to return 200 and were going to return the new user that we just created. And if not, we can return response of 500 or 400, whatever you like, and down here were going to return 500. Okay, so I think this is better, because it gives us more information on what error took place. So, now, lets go back to our code inside our dashboard page, tsX.

1:41:42
And now we can continue and invoke this authentication. Okay, so, were going to say const o equal to await on authenticated user, were going to invoke this and change this to an async function. And now, if the AU status is equal to 200, or AU status is equal to 2011. All right, so, I just want to make a quick change. So, I'm going to go back into the server action.

1:42:06
And im going to change this one to Ser to 2011, because we created an entry, right? So, if this is equal to 200 or 2011, then were going to need to do something in here, were going to return redirect to the Dashboard page, but this is not the right page, were going to send them to another page, were going to send them to the O first user.

1:42:27
So your first name, and after this were going to pass in the next variable, which is O last name. And then finally, if the O status is 44, or its 400 or 500, or even you can put 44 in here too, right? So, I'm going to say 400 and 44 as well. Then, we want to redirect the user to OS signin. Okay, awesome. So, now, we have this part of the application set up.

1:42:54
That means when the user is pretty much when the account is created, were sending the user to the dashboard page, right, and the dashboard page is going to decide, sorry, guys, when the user is authenticated, were sending the user to the dashboard page, and the dashboard page is going to, is going to decide whether we need to create the user or the users already, you know, authenticated and ready to go.

1:43:14
Now, our clerk authentication is going to send us a response. And that response is going to go to our call back, URL. So, we also have to keep track of that. So, lets go to our call back page. And in here were going to create a loading, TSX. Oops, great, sp, great spellings. All right, its loading. TSX. And we also need ap TSX. And this is essentially the exact same thing as the other components.

1:43:39
Okay, so, all were going to do is, I'm just going to copy exactly whats in the other page, right? So, you can go to the dashboard page, copy exactly whats in there, and paste it in here as well. So, were going to essentially create the user in here, if we need to do it. And inside our loading, TSX were going to return a component in here, called off. Loading, just like this.

1:44:00
Now were going to return some class names. Were going to say flex height, das screen with full and item center. And we can also say, justify center like this. And in here were going to return a new component called the Spinner components. So, open up your folder structure. You want to go into components, create another folder in here called global. And inside this, you're going to create a folder called Loader.

1:44:23
And you want an index TSX. Sorry, guys. This is TSX not TS. And you also want a spinner TSX. And this is an SVG. So, I'm not to, of course, I'm not going to type it. So, please go to Github, click on the global spinner TSX. And you can paste this in here. Okay, its just a SVG file. And this way, we dont have to sit and type all this stuff. But yeah.

1:44:48
So paste that in here. And the next thing is, were going to go into the index file. And I'm going to a component call it Loader. And, this is going to take in some props. I'm going to set state set to Boolean. And class name is going to be optional. But this is going to be a string. Then we need color, which is also a string, which is optional.

1:45:07
And we also need children, which comes from, which is React props. React, react node and were going to go ahead and destructure everything from here. And now, we have to check if the state is true. And if the state is true, were going to return the spinner components. With the color prop, passed into it. So, you see how cursor ai is already given it to me.

1:45:26
So, I'm, just going to go ahead and pass this in, like this, and also make sure you import the components. And we also want to return all the children components. If, if, you know, this was not satisfied. Right? So, have a better way to write this, guys. Lets write it this way. So, were going to say return state, and in here were going to pass in a div. And if this is true, awesome.

1:45:47
If not, were just going to return the children elements. Right. And inside this div lets invoke this and were going to pass in the CN function, which comes from my utils file, lets invoke that, and pass in our class name as well. And in here were going to return that spinner component that we just imported. Okay, so just import it like this.

1:46:07
And after this, if you hit enter, and just save the file, that should reformat everything. And this looks so much better. Now, I can go back to the other file, the callback file. And im going to import my spinner components. Okay. All right, looks like I mentioned, justify center twice. I'm just going to remove that. Okay, so now, I think I pretty much set up the authentication. So, lets go ahead and give this a shot.

1:46:27
All right, guys, so I tried it. Of course, it didnt work, right? And this is great, because now I can show you the solution. And you also have an opportunity to think like a SAS developer. So, go ahead and pause this video and try to guess what do you think happened here? Why did the user not get redirected to our callback route or the Dashboard page? Okay, awesome.

1:46:48
Hopefully, you said the answer is because we did not set up our redirect URL, or we did not complete our environment file. So, thats the answer. Okay. Now, there are two ways to do this one, which is a slightly bit more complex, and the other one, which is the simpler approach. And thats exactly what I want you to do, which is the simpler approach.

1:47:14
Now, how this works is once the user signed in clerk gives us the options to essentially send us a web hook response. Okay. Now, what you can do is you can set up web hooks and to set up web hooks, you need to go into your clerk dashboard, and youD, have to go into endpoints, and you have to create an endpoints in here.

1:47:35
But, since we are on local host, clerk is not going to know how to send the request to our local host, right. So, as a result, you will need to use an external tool, like Enro, or other web hook listening tools that can essentially host your local host server on a published URL. And that way, enro can fire to that to that new address. But, of course, thats very complex.

1:48:03
I dont, have the patience to do that. So, the much simpler approach is just go to your environment file. And you should, all, I mean, you should probably already have this in there. But all you have to do is add the next public clerk, signin force, redirect URL, and were going to send the user to the call back route. And if you notice, we are doing the exact same thing, even in the dashboard route, right?

1:48:26
So, you can do the same thing in there as well. Okay, but now, because I already signed in, I got to out the user, but I dont have the sign out button. So, how do I do this? Well, thats exactly what I'm going to show you now. So, I'm glad this actually took place. So, just give me a second and U, ILL show you what you need to do.

1:48:44
All right, so go ahead, open up, inspect elements. And you can go into your cookies. You want to delete all the cookies right here. So, if you are on Chrome, which you probably are I'm using Safari, you would have clear cookies in there as well. So, you can clear the cookies by, you know, deleting everything from here. And we also have some session storage. I'm just going to delete all this stuff.

1:49:05
I dont even know why we need this. I think this might just be all clerk related stuff, right? So, select everything and just clear all the cookies. Clear all local storage and session storage variables. Okay, then you're going to go into your dashboard. You're going to scroll down to users. So right here, and you're going to find your first user. Okay.

1:49:24
So, if you have the sidebar, open, its probably going to look, oh, maybe they changed it. I'm not sure. All right. Well, I have users right here. So, I'm just going to click on this. And if you have a sidebar, guys, just click on users. Okay. Its going to take you to the same page. And then you want to click on this and just delete the user. Okay. So delete this user permanently from here.

1:49:44
And now, if you refresh, of course, if you try to login, its going to take you to the signin page. Okay. So thats how you can clear the session without having the sign up button. Okay, the other alternative is, of course, get the sign up button and put it onto the, you know, onto the screen, and then click on that. And then its too much work. Okay, I dont want to do that.

1:50:01
Okay, I just want to do it this way anyway. So, im going to close this. And now I can sign our user in. So let me make sure. Okay, so we have AC callback. And im going to also take a look at my callback page. TSX. Okay, we have the authenticator right here. I'm going to also keep the terminal open in case something crash. Okay, in, in case something crashes.

1:50:22
Okay, so, let me go ahead and sign in. Guys, give me one second. All right, I see loading. There we go. Nice. So, we see Dashboard here, and its sent us to a specific ID as well. All right, this is exactly what we want to see. And, all right, I think theres one more fix we need to make. So, copy this line, guys, right here from our callback page. TSX page, right here.

1:50:45
Just copy this and were going to go back into our dashboard page. TSX. And right here were actually redirecting the user to first name, last name. And the reason why I did this initially, is because I wanted to send the user to the, you know, if its, a personal account, it looks so much cooler, right? To have the workspace, or the personal name. You can do that.

1:51:06
If you want to, theres, theres nothing thats stopping you, but just you just have to make sure that everything is unique. Thats the only problem. Okay, so using first name, last name, might cause some problems. I'm, just going to change this. And I'm going to use the workspace ID of the user. Okay. Now, of course, we dont have that workspace ID. So, lets go ahead and create that as well.

1:51:26
Okay, so, what I meant is we do have the workspace ID. We just dont have the page. TSX. Inside the workspace ID. Dynamic route. Thats what I meant. Okay, so go into this route. You're first going to create a page. TSX, a layout. TSX, and in here were going to have all the sub routes, right?

1:51:45
So, for example, the builder, the billing folder, or the billing, route, the notifications, route, the settings, route, all that stuff is going to go in here. Okay, so were going to go into page. TSX. And let me just stop real quick because someone in the discord asked, why is this showing up? Okay, so if you see this error, just read the error. The default export is not a React component in SL, dasboard, and workspace ID.

1:52:14
So, what is the default route first? Its page, TSX. So something is going on here. The default export is not a React component. Theres nothing in here. Theres no react component, right? So, because theres nothing being exported. Default, export, right? Theres no default export from this file. Its going to show this error. So, even if you had another type of format, lets see, export on component stuff, something like this, right?

1:52:44
And this was an arrow function. Even if you had something like this, its still going to show you the same error, because the default export from this component is not from this page, is not a component. Okay. So read what you're typing. So, if this is export default, and then we have cons, something like this, we would have to create, sorry, not like this, guys. What am I typing?

1:53:06
So, at the bottom, you can essentially export this component, right? So, export default component stuff. This is good to go, okay. And of course, same thing for layout. TSX as well, right? Because we didnt have anything in layout. TSX, so it was screen, you know, theres an error in here. All right. So thats why it was showing it. But thats pretty much what I wanted to help you understand, which is the export default.

1:53:30
And if you dont have any component in here, its going to show this error. So please dont ask me this error anymore. Inside the discord. Okay. All right. So, im going to go ahead and return a component from here. I'm just going to call this page. TSX. And same for the layouts TSX as well. Okay, please follow with me as well. Now, this layout is going to get access to this ID, right?

1:53:52
We want to get access to this ID. And that way, we can perform some actions in here. So, to get a param, you can grab it from the props. Okay. It comes through something called PAMs. And you can destructure the PAMs itself to get the specific dynamic ID that you passed in here. Okay, so, this is workspace ID. So, you can grab it like this, and even nested elements, also get access to the PAMs as well.

1:54:20
So, you can grab it from there, using the same, pretty much the same thing. Okay, so you can destructure, like this. And you can grab the other params that you need as well. So, I'm going to go ahead and grab the first params, prop, and ILL, also destructure this and store it under the workspace ID. Okay, just like this. And the next prop that I need from here is the children prop.

1:54:46
So, im going grab this as well from here. And, of course, lets put it in here as well. So, we dont get that error. Okay. So, first thing is, we need to authenticate the user. So were going to change this to an async function. And in here were going to first authenticate to make sure the user is logged in. Okay.

1:55:03
Then, if the user does, is not logged in, that means the user does not have a work, sorry, if the user does not have a workspace ID, of course, they are logged in. Because if theyre not, then, you know, this is just going to immediately send them back to the signin page, or the default route, right.

1:55:19
But if the user does not have a workspace ID, for some reason, then were going to send them to the signin page. Okay Because remember, the workspace ID is created when the user signs up, right? But for some reason, if that does not exist, then we have to check in here, and redirect them to the signin page. So, lets go ahead and import this.

1:55:40
So, all you have to say is, if, au user workpace, if this does not exist, then were going to send the user to the signin page. And then we also want to make sure that theres something inside here, right? And if that does exist, that does not exist as well. Well, send them to the signin page as well. So, this is just to satisfy Typescript. So, we get, dont, get Typescript errors later, down this code.

1:56:03
Okay, the next thing is, what if a user is trying to access a workspace that they dont have access to, right, you would want to check to make sure, and verify that they have access to that specific workspace that theyre trying to open. So, you can say const has access equal to await, verify, access to workspace. And you can pass in the workspace ID.

1:56:29
So, this server action can help us look through the workspaces in our database, and it can tell the user if they have access to it or not. Okay, so, lets go ahead and create the server action. So, scroll up, right, top, right, up, top here into actions, and were going to create workspace, do Typescript. First thing is change this to a use Ser server page.

1:56:52
Next were going to say, export, const verify access to workspace equal to an async arrow function. And as PMs were going to change this to workspace ID, because thats what were getting in here. And this is going to be of type string. And next, we need the tri catch block. So, im going to get the TR catch template from here, and also get the current user.

1:57:18
So, const user equal a weit current user, and lets invoke that next step is, if there is no user were going to return a status of 403. Awesome. And if this is good, then now we can go into the workspaces So, is user in workspace equal to await client from prisma workspaces or workspace, doind uniique. And inside this, we have to pass in our query, right?

1:57:52
So, where the ID is like the workspace ID that the user just provided in the PAMs, or where the user is a part of another, you know, workspace as well. So, if they, if they are a member of another workspace, right, so were going to say, or right here, and first thing is user, and from this type, were going to select the clerk ID and say, the clerk ID is equal to the current users ID.

1:58:19
Okay. So, if this is true, and the other one is members for every, where the user has the following clerk ID. Okay. So, if you dont know all this, guys, then I would suggest you just take some time after this course and try to learn a little bit more about Prisma, or hereS the best thing you can do, just copy it and chat with the, with the AI assistant.

1:58:45
Just ask it to please explain what this means in more detail. And it will tell you, right. So thats why I really like cursor. And I suggest you use cursor as well. Okay, so, down here. Now, if everything is successful, just return a status of 200. And the other thing is, we also need to return the data. So, were going to say, data workpace equal, is user inside this workspace.

1:59:11
And if an error took place, then we also have to return the error, right? So, I'm just going to copy this and ill paste this in here. Change the error message to 400 or 403, or I think this one is appropriate. So, change it to 403. And for the workspace, well, set the data to null. All right. Awesome. Now, of course, were getting this error. Thats because we did not import the verify access to workspace.

1:59:36
So lets go ahead and grab that as well. And one more thing I want to point out, so this is because of how NEXTJS works under the hood. So, layouts, TSX pages are technically cached. Okay. But I think in next 15, we are not using next 15 because its very unstable. But in Next5, theyre going to remove caching completely.

2:00:03
And, as a result, you would have to type it out individually, if you want something to get cached, right? So, because of that first, were going to be using a new library, called React Quer And this time, we are just using the, you know, the basic thing, which is, were just going to get cash responses from React query.

2:00:25
Thats pretty much it, okay, were not going to go above and beyond, like last time, and use optimistic UI principles, or all that kind of stuff, you can pretty much handle that. All right, but right now, were just going to cash responses using the React query library. And, you can also set it according to what you want to cache, and what you dont want to cash. Thats completely up to you.

2:00:44
So, I'm kind of setting this up in such a way that if you choose to use next 15 in the future, you're still fine, right? Good to go, because nothings going to get, I mean, even then, you should be fine, cuz, its just new data, right? You're, just not going to get cashing straight out the, out the box, you just have to set it up. All right, so, I just want to point that out.

2:01:03
And the other thing that I want to point out is the layout. TSX page, I think thats what I was talking about first. So, in layout, TSX pages, the layout itself is cached. Okay, this is the behavior of NEXTJS under the hood. And what that means is the layout essentially is going to be reused anyways, right?

2:01:22
Nothing is going to change in a layout, its called a layout, because it wraps that component with a predefined layout, usually a styling. Okay. So, if we make all these requests inside the layout page, whats going to happen is the user will always be verified to access this workspace, because it is all getting cached, right?

2:01:48
So, in Next1.14, since the response is cached, we would have to, I mean, we, we would basically be getting outdated data, right, cuz if the user has disconnected or the user is removed as a member, then our layout page does not get rendered. So, as a result, it does not get the uptodate information, right? So, just keep this in mind.

2:02:10
All right, in next 15, you probably would not have this problem, but I just want to bring this up, right? But for now, im setting it up in such a way that if you switch to Next1.15, you're not going to have that problem as well, because its going to be new data, every single request, okay.

2:02:26
But not sure how the layout TSX works in next 15. But I just wanted to inform you and educate you on how the layout TSX page truly works under the hood. Okay, it is cash stuff, that means its not going to fire again.

2:02:41
So, anytime you're making requests in here, and you want to store that information and pass it as a prop or something like that, just keep in mind that data is always going to be cashed, at least in Next1.14. Okay, awesome.

2:02:55
So, heres, what were going to do now, we have this, first thing is, were going to say, if has access, so the user has access, and the status is not equal to 200, then we need to essentially return of redirect. So were going to say redirect right here. Let me see if I have to import this. Okay, I dont need to so redirect the UR, the user to their correct workspace ID, right?

2:03:19
Because we already, we know that the user has a workspace, so were going to send them right here anyway. And next were going to say, if they dont have access, so has access DAT workspaces right? So, workspace were going to return null. Okay, so even after all of this, if theres something weird, then were just going to return null. Next, were going to say const query equal new query, client.

2:03:49
And this is when we need React query. Okay, so query client like this. So, we need to go ahead and install that. So, open up your terminal and lets go ahead and install query. React, query. Okay, so I just went to the website right here. And if I clicked on installation, and I see the BUN command, so I'm just going to copy that. I'm going to quit the terminal.

2:04:10
And im going to paste this command in here. All right, awesome. Next, I'm going to shrink this. And now I can import this from here, which is the query cl client itself, from tanack. React query. Okay, so, this should no longer throw that error. And now that I have the query clients, and guys, you can also create the same query client in a, in your lib file, and you can just export it, right.

2:04:35
The same way we did for Prisma. You can do that as well. All right, I'm, just going to write it here, because its just a habit for me. But you can put it in that file, if youd, like, okay, so, now, I'm going to say query, prefetch query. Okay. And, this way, we can store this data in here, right? And, we are prefetching, and kind of like caching this stuff.

2:04:55
And you can take a look at it, actually, just look through this, and read all the documentation. So, take a look at this, right? So, prefetch, query is an asynchronous method that can be used to prefetch a query before its needed. Okay, and this used query hook. If you remember our last project, we use this a lot, right?

2:05:14
This, used query hook is essentially going to give us access to the data based on a key that we provide. No, as the query key. Okay. And you can take a look at all that stuff, lets click on this, and see if it shows us the query key. Okay, theres a lot more to read, but there is a query key that you can essentially pass some data into.

2:05:34
And then you can leverage that to pull it out of use query later on. All right, there you go. So, I found it. So, at its core tan stack, query, manages to manages query, caching for you based on query keys. Okay, exactly what I just mentioned. So, you can take a look at all this stuff. Theres plenty of resources in here to help you. So, I just wanted to give you that.

2:05:57
So you can go ahead and read more. Okay, so, first thing, we need to pass in our query key, right? So, our query key has to be inside an array. And you have to pass in a string here and were going to call this workspace folders. Okay. Thats the first thing. And were going to also pass in the function right here, which is to get those folders. So, its kind of like the server action.

2:06:20
And this, this one is called workspace folders, like this, workspace folders. All right, this should be good. And, okay, I need to pass in the ID as well, right? So, thats for that. And just keep this in mind. Were just prefetching, all of this data here. Thats pretty much it. So, we dont need it to store it somewhere and pass it as a prop or anything like that. Okay. Thats the benefits of using React query.

2:06:45
It would make no sense for us to pass it as, as a prop, or else. It just beats the whole purpose, right? Were using this, because we can cach all this data and use it anywhere. Its kind of like state management, but for a server component, right? All right. So, lets go ahead and build out the server action. So, we need a couple here. So, ILL, also build those out real quick.

2:07:05
So, the first thing we need is a workspace folders. The next one is the user videos, so, all of their content, then we need the user workspaces. And then finally, we need the users notifications. Okay, so a bunch right here, please dont, make any spelling errors in this inside the keys as well. Just copy paste, or just verify, look at my screen, and make sure you have the exact same IDs.

2:07:31
And now, of course, I'm going to change this one to get all user videos. This one, I'm going to change it to get workspaces. And here, I'm going to pass in get notifications. Now, for getting the users videos, we need the workspace ID. But to get the workspaces, its only for one user, right, so we can use the authenticated user. And the same for notifications as well.

2:07:54
So, now, lets go ahead and create the first one. So, we want to scroll all the way here, and I'm going to create workspace, do typescript. Oh, we already have it guys. Sorry about that. So, I'm just going to click on this one, because we already created this. And down here, I'm going to say, export cons get workspace folders. And this is going to be an arrow function.

2:08:13
And we need the workspace ID, which is going to be a string. And this needs to be an async function as well. And down here, we need the tr catch block. So, lets grab that and were going to say, is folders equal to await client folder, find many. And in here, we need to say where, for this specific workspace ID, right, so were going to say workspace ID is the workspace ID that was provided.

2:08:40
So, you can technically just do it like this workspace ID. All right, lets change this. Okay, there we go. And next, we also want to include some data from this. So, we want to include underscore count, okay, and select for the videos. So, how many videos are inside each inside each workspace as well, right, so were going to change this to videos and set it to true. And at the bottom, if is folders.

2:09:10
So, if this exist, and is folders length, okay, if this is greater than zero, then we know its good to go So, well, return a status of 200 and were going to set the data to his folders. Next were going to return a status of 404. If nothing exists, and for data, were going to return an empty array. Now, im going to copy this as well.

2:09:37
And under the error, I'm just going to mention 500. Okay, or you can also say 403. This is more appropriate. Okay. And same thing, return an empt array. All right, so lets go back now and import our get workspace folders. Great. So were done with that. Next is the get all user videos, server action. So, go back into the same file, right, the workspace, typescript.

2:10:00
And at the bottom, im going to export const get all user videos, which is going to be an async function. What Whats going on, async, er, function. All right, not sure what was going on there. And in here, we also have to get the location, or the workspace ID. So, I'm, just going to say workspace ID like this. And this is going to be a string as well. And now lets get the tr catch block.

2:10:26
And in here were going to say const user equal await current user. And lets invoke this. If theres no user return status of 404. Next, were going to say const video or videos equal to await client video, find many. Okay, and were going to find many for the following. So, please follow this. Okay, were going to say, or here, okay, were going to, oops, I made a spelling error. So, or like this.

2:10:58
And this is going to be an array. Okay. Because theres two different types here. First, one is workspace ID. So, we want to pass that in. Okay. And the next one is the folder ID is also equal to this workspace ID. Okay. So, I made a spelling error here. I'm just going to copy this. And I'm going to replace this here. So I can use the same format. Okay. So, just change the case sensitivity. Okay.

2:11:23
So, workspace ID, same exact thing here. Okay. So, for each of these and were going to select the following data. So, we need the ID were going to set this to true. Were going to need title created at source processing. Next, we also need the folder, right? And were going to select the ID and the name for that video. Then we can get the user information, such as the first, last and image.

2:11:47
Then, after that, were going to order by, sorry, guys, its after this, so use user, right here, after the green bracket, you want to say order by created at ascending order, and next at the bottom were going to say, if the video, if the videos and the videos actually exist, well, return 200 and send all the data. Now, return 4.404. If theres any error.

2:12:07
And same thing for here as well, I'm just going to return a 400 error. Okay, thats pretty much it. So lets go back, and I'm going to import this one. Awesome. Now, heres a challenge for you. Heres, the next server action, you need to create a server action that can get all the workspaces for the current logged in user. So, go ahead, pause this video and try to give this a shot.

2:12:30
If you dont know how to do it, im going to exactly how to do it. Okay, hopefully you got right answer. If you didnt, this is the right answer. So, were going to say the exact same thing, which is export. Cons get workspaces So, please type with me. Okay. Its an async arrow function. And now, we need the tr catch block. And inside the try first, were going to get the current user.

2:12:53
So, whos logged in, right? If theres no user, the same thing were going to return 404. Now, for workspaces were going to do. Await clients, user find unique for this clerk ID. So, the, this exact user whos logged in. Okay. Now, this part, you might have gotten wrong, and thats totally fine, because this is just additional data that were going to need. So, please follow through.

2:13:14
So, first thing is we want to select the subscription plan. So, subscription, we want to select the plan and set it to true. Then, we also need the workspace and the members inside the workspace, as well. So, for workspace, we need ID, name and type for members. We need the members who are part of this workspace. So, select for the workspace, where we want to select only those that have the ID, name and the type.

2:13:40
Okay. And thats, it. Now, were going to go down here and were going to return all the data if the status is 200, right? So, if work spaces exist, return 200, if not, were going to return 400. Awesome. So, I showed you how to do this. Now, I want you to do get notifications as well. Okay, so pause the video and try to do this. And if you dont know how to, ill show you the answer.

2:14:01
Okay, awesome. Hopefully, you got the right answer. But, if you didnt, no problem, now, this is get notifications, which is tailor to one user. So, the best way is to put it. I think the best thing to do is to put it inside the user file, right? So, thats, the first thing I would do, which is export const.

2:14:19
Get notifications equal to an async arrow function, which is going to have, we dont need any params right here. So, I'm just going to remove this. And in here were going to have the tr catch block. And first, we need the user. So, const user equal await current user lets invoke that. And now, if theres no user, you're going to return a status of 400. Okay, 404, actually.

2:14:46
And later, the next thing we need to do is get all the notifications. So, this was the main part you had to do. Okay, notifications equal a8 client user, find unique or not find first, find unique. And in here were going to say where this client or this clerk ID is set to user ID. Okay, and now, we need to select the notification. Oops, whats going on Notification. And we want to set this to true.

2:15:16
Okay, so we want all the notifications, but were also going to count them. Okay, so select and were going to select notifications, set this to true. Okay, so, now we get a number as to how many notifications they have as well. All right, next, if notification and, and notifications length, notifications, notifications length, okay, like this, then sorry, it als has to be greater than zero.

2:15:46
And actually, you can also pass in just the thing as well, right? Because its truthy value, but this should be good. So, if this is true, were going to return status of 200. And data were going to set it to notifications. Okay, just like this. Awesome.

2:16:01
And after this down here, if this fails, were going to return, oops, sorry, were going to return status of 400 and were also going to return the data, but set it to an empty array. I'm going to copy this. And in here, I'm going to paste the same thing. And actually, ILL, change this to 404. Okay. Now lets go back and I'm going to import my get notification server action as well. Okay, awesome, guys.

2:16:27
Great job so far. Now, when you're using query, client, all components that need to get access to use query, or to get access to this specific query that was prefetched and the data, we need to wrap everything inside something called a hydration boundary. If you dont know what that is, you can take a look at the query T, tanack queries, documentation, but its essentially going to give us access to that state. Okay.

2:16:55
So, thats exactly what were going to do right now. So, create the hydration boundary first, and were going to set the state equal to. And this is going to have a function in here, which we need to invoke, which is called dehydrate. Okay. And that comes from tanack, react query as well. And go ahead invoke that. And you want to pass in our query, client.

2:17:17
So, now, its going to give us all the state and pass it in here. Its kind of like redux, guys. Okay. Its basically a provider that gives states to our components. Okay, next thing is we need a div in here. So, im going to create this div. And this is going to have flex height of screen, and width of screen. And in here were going to pass in first component, which is the sidebar.

2:17:40
Okay, and after the sidebar, were going to have some other components down here. So, first, well, finish the sidebar component. And then, well, come to the rest. Okay. So in our sidebar were also going to need the default active workspace, correct. So, were going to say active workspace ID is equal to the workspace ID. We currently just cre just got, okay. Or the user is trying to access, sorry, okay.

2:18:06
Which, which the user is trying to access is what is called the active workspace ID, right? Because thats what they try to click on. So, now were going to go down here and were going to scroll down to components. And inside global, were going to create another folder, fer called sidebar. And inside this, an index. TsX. Okay, so go ahead and return a new component and rename it to sidebar.

2:18:29
And the first thing we need right here is the active workspace ID. Now, before this error happens, I'm going to go back and quickly import the sidebar component as well. So, we can see what were doing. And lets go back to local host. Lets, make sure we say bun, run, dev. Okay, awesome. And lets just give that a second to, to restart. Okay, great.

2:18:50
So, the first thing we see is no query, client, set, use query, client provider to set one. So, query client provider is essentially, you, you need to wrap your entire application inside this provider, to get access to all this query, client related stuff as well, right? We have the hydration boundary, of course. And thats going to give us the state of what we just created right here.

2:19:12
But, we also have to wrap this around the entire component. And if you're, wondering how I know it, I just read documentation. Okay, so im going to go down all the way to our layout. TSX, which is in the root file. And you see the children components right here, right, were going to create the react query provider, like this. So, react query provider, and were going to pass in the children elements directly in here.

2:19:38
Now, the reason why I like to have this in a different file is because I dont, like to do anything in the root layout file. So, I'm going to go down into our root folder right here. And outside this, I'm going to create react DQU and index provider, or index. TSX. Okay. And now, I can return this react query provider, new component right here.

2:20:02
And the reason why I said, I like to do it this way, is because now I can create the new query, client, and I can pass the client down here, right? And, I dont want to do anything in the, the root layout file. So, const client, equal, new query, client, just invoke it like this, and import it from tanack query.

2:20:22
And now, down here, I'm going to go ahead and pass this into our query, client provider. So, im going to say query, client provider, import this, just like this. Okay. And now, the client is going to be equal to the client we just created. And we also have to get the children, right? So, were going to say, children are going, is going to be react. React node.

2:20:44
And I'm going to import, sorry, destructure, and grab the children elements. And also pass in the children elements down in here. Now lets go back. And quickly import our react query provider. And that should solve this problem. Okay, so, another quick change we need to make.

2:21:01
So, if you go down into your React query client, which is the React query component, theres one thing we need to change, which is add a use client up top here, I totally forgot to mention this. And the reason is because this is a client component.

2:21:16
Okay, so were going to need to put the used client up here, because were passing down some client related stuff into, I mean, its A, if you remove this, its a server component, and you can only pass in certain type of data, right? You can take a look and see what the error is. Only plain objects. And few builtin can be passed into client components from server components. Right?

2:21:37
So, this right here is just, it does not satisfy this plane objects. Okay. So, thats why we need to change this to a client component. Now, next thing is, im going to go back to my layouts. TSX. And now I can pretty much continue from here. So, inside my sidebar component, im going to first get this and destructure it from our props, just like this.

2:22:00
And im going to provide a class name with the background set to the following specific style. And then im going to say, flex none, relative padding of four, height of full width of 250 pixels. Flex, flex, column gap of four, and items. Center. Okay. And lets see what that does. All right, looks great. Now, im going to remove this right here. And I also want to add one more thing right here.

2:22:29
I'm going to say overflow, hidden. Okay. And inside this div, im going to create another div with the following class name. So please type this with me. So, im going to say, background, set it to the same color, right? And now, im going to set the padding to four gap of two, justify, center items.

2:22:47
Center, the margin, bottom of four, like this, we want to say absolute, were going to say, top of zero, left of zero, right of zero, like this. Okay, see, I made an error here. This is why I dont, like to type this out, guys. But I saw some comments. And you guys wanted me to type everything. I dont really know whats the difference between me.

2:23:08
Copy and pasting this and reading it out, and just, you know, typing it out makes absolutely no difference. But I think its, maybe for you. I mean, whatever you guys like, im totally fine with it. Its just going to take us a very long time. And if you're, okay, with that, im okay with it as well. Okay, so let just let me know in the comments. What method do you like more?

2:23:25
And im sure this time, IVE gone more in depth and more in detail. IVE explained every single thing, because I read some comments. And a few of you guys are beginners, even though this channel is for more advanced U, you know, nextJS developers and SAS developers. But at the same time, I also want to, you know, help you guys out as well. Okay, so thats why im explaining, all right.

2:23:46
Just let me know what you guys think is best. So next, im going to have an image component right here. And im going to pass in the source as Opal logo. We dont need this. I'm just going to remove this. And let me make sure its the same name. Okay, opal. LogosVG. All right, perfect. And then we want to say the height, the width and the logo right here as the all text.

2:24:08
And then right after that, im going to create a paragraph tag with the following class names, which is text 2. Xel. And then im going to call this opal. All right. So, the reason why im not seeing the width is because I made an errow here. This is why I like to copy paste, because I dont have to deal with this. But. All right, there we go. All right, so width 250 pixels.

2:24:28
Okay, so next, after this paragraph down here were going to create our select component. So, we can have a drop down, right? So, something very similar to this right here, right? This is what were trying to do. So, im going to go back here. And I'm going to say select component. And this comes from components. UI. Okay, and the default value is going to be equal to the active selected value.

2:24:52
Okay, because this is what the user was trying to access. So, were going to give them access immediately. And on value change were going to set this equal to an onchange handler. Now, immediately when we need something thats clientbased, im going to go ahead and change this to use client, up top here. And now I can create that state. So, yeah, were not going to be using a state.

2:25:14
Its just a callback function, right Cuz its an onV value change method here, sorry, prop, which is basically just a callback function. And its just going to invoke it behind the scenes. So, were going to say, const on change, active workspace, and were going to set this equal to an ArOR function. And its going to take in the value, which is a string.

2:25:36
And all were going to do is, were going to say router push, and were going to send them to that specific value. So, if they try to change the drop down, then we can then we can send the user to that specific location. So, since we need rout here were also going to say con. Cons router equal use router and use router comes from next navigation. So, go ahead and import that one as well.

2:25:58
Now we can copy this. And im going to put it down here. All right. Awesome. So this is just the provider. Theres more stuff in this. So, first thing is we need the trigger element. Okay. So im going to say select trig, why did I say it that way? Select trigger. And I'm going to pass in a class name if it can save me today. Hello, excuse me. All right. There we go.

2:26:19
So, margin, top of 16. Text neutral. Well, set this to 400. And in here, background is going to be transparent. And inside this were going to say select value. This is the same thing coming from components. UI. And inside this were going to pass in a placeholder. Okay. And the placeholder is going to say, select a workspace, Oops, typed it out of this. Select a workspace. Okay, there you go, looks amazing.

2:26:49
And if you, you click on, of course, nothings going to happen right now, because we need to show the select components as well, which is called the select content. So were going to say select content like this. And if you dont know where im getting all this, guys, its from Shaden UI, right Its literally shaten. You can go learn what they have, learn about their components as well.

2:27:08
So, I dont want to waste too much of your time. I'm just going to go ahead and build this right here, which is the select content. And for that, im going to need a different background color. So, im going to set this to the same color that we had before. And im going to set the backdrop to blur, but ILL, change this to exel. Okay, next were going to create a select group.

2:27:31
Okay, so select group, like this. And this group is going to need to have a label inside this. So select label, and the label is going to say workspaces So now, if you click the drop down, you're, going to see all the workspaces in here next were going to need a separator. So im going to import that one as well, well.

2:27:50
And after this, im going to loop over the workspace, which is a variable, and were going to get that from, from used, used query data. Right, so, were going to get this from our query, client that we created, which is, oh, sorry. React query. So, lets go up top here. First thing were going to say is const data and is fetched. Okay. And this is equal to Usequery data.

2:28:14
And this hook is essentially a custom hook that were going to need. So, what were going to do is open up, our folder structure, were going to go into hooks and were going to create a file in here called Usequery data. Typescript. And in here, I'm going to export const use query data, which is equal to an arrow function, just like this. And in here were going to get access to the query key.

2:28:39
Okay, and this is going to be of type, query key from tan query. And then were also going to need the query function. So, query function, and this is going to be of type, query function, of course. So im going to import that one as well. And finally, we also need enabled, so enabled, which is going to be optional. And this is going to be of type enabled. Nice.

2:29:02
And now, in here were going to say, consta is pending, and is fetched. Okay, and here were going to, I mean, we also need some more. So refetch, and finally, is fetching. Okay, and were going to use query here. So we can get access to all the, the data that we prefetched, right? So were going to get used. Query invoke this.

2:29:27
And this is going to take in our query key, so, query key first, then the query function. And then we need enabled. Okay, so it looks like we dont need this anymore, cuz, I'm just looking at the documentation. And I only see two, two types of params right here, which is, okay, thats fine. Well, remove that. Okay. Not sure why thats happening, but here, its also screaming again, saying overload, one of three. All right.

2:29:55
Just give me a second. Guys, let me fix this bug. So we have query use, oh my God. All right. I love it. When stuff like this happens, man. All right. So this is actually, if you open this, you see its A, its an object with a bunch of options, right? So were going to pass in an object in here. Okay, so let me just quickly fix this.

2:30:18
And for that, we need query, key, we need query function, and we need enabled. Okay, so now, this is going to work, lets see, okay, so even then its throwing the enabled error. And I think thats because im not accepting it from the params. Okay, so I think it just auto removed that. For me, my life is just so difficult right now. And this one is enabled. Okay, so lets import that. Okay, nice.

2:30:45
And now we need to return all of this stuff. So, return data is pending. We need is fetched. We need refetch. Oops. What happened? Ref fetched like this, and is fetching? Okay, so we can return all this data if anyones using this hook. Okay, so lets go back now and were going to import this new hook that we just created. And this hook is called use query data. So, lets import it, im going to invoke.

2:31:14
And now, all we have to do is pass in the key that we want. So, user workspaces, right? And we also need get workspaces, which is the callback function. So were going to say, get workspaces like this. Okay. From this action. Awesome. And we can just pass it in here. Now, I ultim made one more error. This enabled is actually optional. So, I went back into the hook, and I just put that question mark there.

2:31:39
And the next thing is, you want to move this outside the outside, the query keys. Okay, so, two different parameters. All right. Phew, that was a lot, lot of work for nothing. So, I'm just going to go down here. Now, after the separator, and now I can loop over our workspaces Or actually, I still have to get the data from this, right? So, where did I make this call? So, we have data here.

2:32:04
I'm going to rename this to Workspace. Or maybe give me one second guys. I think theres a better way to write this. So, right below this, I want some types, script, right? Type intelligence, because right now, its going to say type unknown. So, to do this, I think this is an easier way. So, I'm going to say data, I'm going to set this to rename this to type of workspace, like this.

2:32:27
And im going to set this to equal to this data, right? And I have to typ cast it to use as. Workspace. Props. Okay. So, workspace, props. Why is it not giving me that? Oh, I thought Prisma had those types. All right. So, I'm going to go down here and I'm going to create a folder outside the root folder. So, source create, another folder. Were going to call this types. Okay.

2:32:50
And inside that, I'm going to create index, type, typescript. And in here, first thing I'm going to do is export type, workspace. Props equal to an object. And the data is going to be set to the following. So, this is going to have Subscription were going to set this to an object. And first prop is the first value is going to be plan. And this is either going to be of type free.

2:33:20
Or were going to have pro in here, or, of course, this can be set to null. Then were going to have workspace. And this is going to have ID, set to string name, set to string as well. And the type is going to be of type, public, or personal. And this is going to be an array of these workspaces And members is again, going to be an array. So, an array of these.

2:33:45
So, first thing is its, for this workspace, right So workspace, and were going to have an object here for more types. Let me just save this. So, it kind of restructures Everything were going to set the ID as string. The name is string as well. And the type is going to be public here, or personal. Okay. Nice. All right. So, now we can export this workspace, props. And I can just typ cast here.

2:34:11
All right, WORKSA workspace, props. And now this data is going to have all of these types. Okay. Now, I can reuse this down here. And we can render out elements. Nice. So, workspaceworkspace, map. So, just invoke that, and for each of it, were going to get access to a workspace itself, but were going to return a select item for each of these. Okay, so return a select item, but first provide the key, very important.

2:34:43
So, workspace, doid? I feel like this should just be automated. I dont know why we have to still do that. Okay. And value, where is this value equal to workspace? Doid. All right. Nice. And inside this were going to say, workspace, do name. All right, and lets see what happens. Hey, there we go. Great, job. Okay. So, we can see all the workspaces right now. Next, right After this were going to say, workspace, do members.

2:35:12
Sorry, guys, we have to first put this bracket here, because were going to be using some Javascript code. So were going to say members length, if its greater than zero and workspace, do members map, then were going to return another element. So, here were going to get the workspace itself. So, lets just grab that. And in here, im going to say, workspace, do workspace.

2:35:39
If that exists, then im going to return the following, its going to be a select item again, down here. So, lets import this. And after this, what seems to be the error here. Let me just take a quick look. Okay, the error is right here. So, remove this bracket. Okay, we dont need that. And for select item, we need to pass in the value. And the value here is going to be workspaceworkspace, doid.

2:36:07
And after this, we need to also pass in the key. And the key is going to be equal to the same thing. So, workspaceworkspace, doid. And inside this were going to pass in the work, workspaceworkspace, do name. Okay, so somethings going on, that doesnt quite look right. This should be the active workspace right now, because I'm, under this ID, right?

2:36:31
So, this ID is, it starts with 994. So, something is wrong with the way we set up the default value. And im not entirely sure why this is going on. So, lets quickly debug. And I want to show you the process. Okay, so first thing I'm going to do, of course, is consolelog. And I want to make, make sure that the active workspace ID exist, if I'm even passing it in.

2:36:55
Okay, so this is a client component. So, you got to open the terminal here. And you want to take a look at this. So, lets refresh everything. And im also going to remove errors and just have the logs. Okay. All right, there we go. So, its undefined. So lets go back into our layout component And our act. Okay, you see, we made an error here.

2:37:17
So, active workspace ID has to be set to the correct active workspace ID. Okay. So now, if we refresh, there we go. Great job so far. So, another thing that I want to show you explain to you is, why do we have this section here? So this is if the user is a member of another workspace as well.

2:37:37
So you could have a different, maybe a group here, if youd, like, and maybe that would make more sense. So, for example, this is public workspace, right? And then you can also have, sorry, this is private workspace. And you can have a separator and public workspaces as well. So thats, why were rendering this out in here? Okay, so after the select element right here, based on the users subscription plan, were going to show a button.

2:38:04
Okay, so were going to say, workspace, dos subscription, or for now, I'm just going to return. So you can see what it looks like. And then we will turn it off. So for, this, were going to need a custom component called model. All right, just like this. So, copy this name, were going to open up our folder Structure were going to go into global and were going to call this modal like this.

2:38:26
And inside this, an index. TSX. Oops. Whats going on, accidentally type something? So, index TSX, and in here return a component called modal. Now, the props for these are first, were going to have something called trigger. And these are all react components. So were going to say trigger, react, react node. Children, which is react. React node. We have title, title, description, and class name. Okay.

2:38:51
And I'm also going to go ahead and put that right here. Nice. And lets go ahead and destructure these values. Okay, so lets grab these values from here. Nice and remove whatever we have here, and return a dialogue components. And first thing is the dialogue trigger. So, were going to return a dialog trigger like this. And inside this, were going to give it a class name and pass in any class name that the user wanted.

2:39:18
Okay. So pass that in right there. And this is going to be as child. And in the dialogue trigger, we can pass in the trigger element that the user passed. Next, we need the dialog components or the content. So, dialog content, and in here were going to first have the header part. So, dialog header, and inside the header, well, have the title, or actually first, well, have this different sections inside this as well.

2:39:46
So, we might as well use that. So, this is going to be dialogue title, okay. And inside the title, you want to pass in title, like this, and dialogue description. Okay. And inside this again, go ahead and pass in the description as well. And after the header, were going to pass in all the other children elements inside this kind of like content. Okay, nice. Now we can go back and import our new model.component, model component.

2:40:13
I keep messing, mixing up both of them, guys. All right. Lets import this one more time. All right. Awesome. Now, we need to go ahead and pass in all the values, right? So, the first thing were going to do in here is, were going to say title equal to invite work. Workspace, invite to workspace. I think this sounds nicer. Okay, nice. And then we also need Des. Oh, whats going on here?

2:40:41
Okay, I think its just Typescript. Okay. But it should technically render out the data, lets see whats going on. Okay, we need a, a trigger, right? Thats the problem. So for the trigger first, lets go down here. And for trigger, were going to set this to a React component.

2:40:58
So were going to say span, class name, text, small, cursor pointer, we need flex items, center, justify, center and Bg neutral of 800. And this is going to be opacity 90. And after that, if you hover over this, so were going to say cover and set this to Bg. Neutral, 800, but were going to set it to 60 opacity, and the width now is going to be full rounded.

2:41:30
Is going to be small padding of 5 pixels gap of two. Okay, nice. And inside this, were going to have the plus circle icon, which comes from lucid React. So im going to import that. And we dont need, I'm, just going to make it a closing component, closed component. And for size, im going to set it to 15. And class name is going to be set to text neutral. Okay, text neutral.

2:41:58
D800. And this will also have 90 Opacity. And we also need PhilL. On this one, phill. Das, neutral of 500. Okay, I think this should be good enough. And of course, we cant completely see it because we have to put some text in here. I mean, we can see the plus icon, but we need more here. So what I'm going to do is create a span.

2:42:20
And inside the span, give it text neutral of, instead of 50. Well, give it 400. And then we want font. Das semibold text DXS. Okay. And inside this invite to workspace. All right, looks all right. Yeah, thats fine. And I actually like the hover color, guys. I dont know. What about you? Let me know what you guys think. Maybe I feel like the hover color looks nicer. So what ill do is, wheres my hover?

2:42:52
Okay, its right here. So, ILL copy this background color. And instead of 90, ill set it to something like 70 lets see what this looks like. Oh, I made a, I think I made a. Did I make an error here? Let me look, okay, for some reason, it became border. Oh, I hate spelling errors. Let me fix that. All right. There we go. That makes so much more sense.

2:43:15
Now, it looks a little more realistic, right, invite to work space. Now, if you click on it, its going to show something, but nothings in there, because we need to pass in some more elements in here, such as description and the children elements, right. So, lets go ahead and pass in a description. So if you click on it, invite others, other users to your workspace, right? So invite other users to your workspace.

2:43:39
And the next thing is, of course, were going to make sure that this workspace is a public workspace, right? Because they cannot invite anyone into a personal workspace. So, well, do all of that stuff later. I just want to show you what this looks like. First, next were going to call this workspace search, okay, S, E, A, R, C, D. And this is going to be a new component that we need to create.

2:44:03
So, go ahead and open up your folder structure, just like this. And you're, going to go into global components, create search, workspace. And in here, you're, going to say, create a new file called index. TsX. And I'm going to return a component and rename that. Okay, now, this component is going to be a server component. So were good to go, but were going to change this to workpace ID.

2:44:27
So we can get it through the props and were also going to destructure this from here. Okay, nice. Now, down here, first thing is, were going to use a new hook. And this hook is called use search. Okay, use search is going to give us the ability to search through a database, or to essentially, sorry, search through our database. But at the same time, you can use and leverage keys and get data from this.

2:44:52
Okay, so lets, go ahead and create that hook. So, go into hooks. And you want to create a file in here called use search. Okay, TSX and U. Actually, this just TS not TSX. And in here, export const use search equal to an arrow function. And in here, first thing we need is the key, which is going to be a string.

2:45:18
And next thing is, we need the type, which is going to be the work workpace. Okay, nice. And inside here were going to say the following. So were going to say, const first, we need query. And also, guys, this is super, super optimized. So, we are debouncing all of the queries that were making to the database as well directly in here. So, this is another benefits of using this hook, okay.

2:45:43
Or else, you would have to type it every single time, you want to make a search request inside a specific key or a database, okay, inside your table. So, first thing is query, and this is set query, and this is going to be equal to use state, okay, lets import that one. And lets also invoke it. And this is going to have a default type of string. So, you can just pass this in right, here.

2:46:07
And then we also need another state. And this one is called, let me see, use state, like this, and this ones called debounce. Okay, so const, debounce in here. And in here were going to say, set, debounce, like this. And that is equal to UST state and lets invoke that and pass it a string as well.

2:46:28
Next, we want to say const on users and set on users like this equal to use state and lets invoke this. And now, this state is going to be unique. So, please follow through with me. So, the type here is, were going to say this, or its an object, right? With ID, set to string like this. And the next thing is subscription. Okay. And this is set to an object.

2:46:57
And subscription is going to have plan, which is pro or free, right? And this can also be null. So, what seems to be the error here. Do I need subscription? I'm just going to use AI to fix it. Oh, okay, I didnt put the, sorry, I dont, didnt really need AI. But, okay. And then right here, I'm going to say null.

2:47:19
And then after this first name is going to be a string or null, last name is going to be a string or null as well. And then after this down here, were going to need the image, which is going to be a string or null and were going to also need email, which is string or null. Okay, awesome. Now, this can also be undefined.

2:47:44
So after this down here, first for these users, this can be, this has to be an array, right? So what im going to do here is set this to an array like this. And after this, im going to say, or undefined. All right. And this can also be undefined right here. So, im going to just say, undefined. All right. Awesome.

2:48:07
The best type would actually be an empty array, but I think this can help me when im doing stuff, like looking through it and stuff. So, I dont have to look at the length of the array, right Next, we need to say const on search. Query. Okay. And this is equal to an arrow function. And this is going to give us an event, which is react. Changeevent. Okay. And it comes from the HTML input.

2:48:31
So, lets go ahead and grab that. So, HTML input element. This should do this, should do it. And in here, all were going to do is set the query. So, whatever the user is searching for, were going to set E target val to that stuff. Okay. To this setter do value. Nice. So this is a callback function.

2:48:53
And basically, when the user makes a change in the input field were going to set that value inside this query. Okay, then what were going to do is were going to look at the, debounce, and based on whether were debouncing or not through a set timer. Depending on that, we will send the request, or, well, wait accordingly. Okay, so first, we need a use effect. So, go ahead and grab, use effect, like this, invoke it.

2:49:19
Pass it an arrow function, and a dependency array. And in here first were going to say, const delay input timer, ID, okay, or time out. This is fine, too timeout ID, equal to set timeouts. And I'm going to invoke this. This takes in an arrow function. And the first thing is the error function. Second, is the millisecond delay, right?

2:49:45
So, were going to say, 1 second delay, and every second were going to set, debounce to the query. Okay. And you can also use refs for this, guys. IVE done so many examples with this, and even our last project. And its pretty much the same thing, right? Just different versions. And you can use that if youd, like so. Now, once this is done, we also have to have a cleanup.

2:50:08
So, were going to return an arrow function here with clear timeout, clear timeout, and were going to pass in our new U, the timeout ID that we just got right here. Okay. All right. Awesome. Now, we also need to pass in our dependency. So, we need query in here. Okay, nice.

2:50:26
And now, were going to use the use query, data, hook, right, that we just created and were going to pass in our keys and all the stuff that it needs. And accordingly, were going to get data from that. Okay, so const refetch, data, and is fetching because we will be literally getting data while the user is making a request every second, right? So, we need to refresh this data.

2:50:52
So, thats why we need these two props. So, first, let me go get used. Query data. Invoke this. And now I can get prefetch or refetch, sorry. And we need is fetching. Nice. And in here, we have to pass in the first parameter, which is going to be an array with key and debounced. Okay, key, and debounced. Nice. And after this, we need our arrow function. So, what does it have to call?

2:51:21
And this arrow function right here is, of course, going to be async, and its going to get the query key. Okay, query, key, just like this. Now, inside this, if the type is equal to workspace, then were going to do the following.

2:51:37
So all you have to do is every time you want to use this, this, US search hook, for anything else you're, trying to search, you have to come here and create a new type and pass in what you want it to do. Okay, thats it. So, in here, I'm going to say, const workspace equal, A8 search, workspace, search, workspaces or workspace should be good as well.

2:52:00
And this is a new server action that well, need to create. So, copy this name, were going to go all the way up top into actions. And in users, I'm going to say, export, const search, workspace. And this is equal to an arrow function. And in here, first, we need this to be an async function.

2:52:22
And this will take in a query, which is going to be a string, and lets get the tr catch block as well. So, const user equal await current user, and lets invoke this. And next, if theres, no user were going to return TN return status of 400 of 404. And after this, const workspace equal A8 client user, find many. And in here were going to say where, please follow through with this.

2:52:55
Okay, so where one of these are true, okay, which is first, the first name contains the query. Okay, thats the first one. Then, after this, I'm going to put another comma right here, the email contains, the query or last name contains the query that was sent. Okay, so pass this in. All right. Awesome. And not, is another one. So its not equal to their own, their own name, right?

2:53:25
So, we want to say clerk ID is not equal to the user ID. Next is after this, were going to select some specific data from this. So, we need the ID were going to set it to true, we need subscriptions And for this were going to select specifically the plan related info, right? So were going to say plan equal true as well. On want to put this on another line.

2:53:50
Okay, and after subscriptions we need first name, true, and then we need last name, true as well. And then here, image set to true and email set to true.

2:54:02
Okay, now, at the bottom here were going to say, if the workspace exists, and workspace, do length is greater than, Oops, why is it not giving me intelligence, okay, is greater than zero, then were going to return status of 200 data of workspace, okay, and then after that, were going to return status, status of 404. And we want all to pass in the data in here, okay, so were going to send the workspace itself.

2:54:34
And then if the error happens, well, send 500. And the data will be set to actually, if nothing exists here, then were going to send null, right? Or undefined. So, undefined, or null, whatever, null should be fine. And in here, we can also send in null. Okay. All right. So, lets go back to our file. And now im going to import the search action.

2:54:59
And now, a first thing is I need to pass in the query key. Okay, so the first one that the user provided as a string. Okay, nice. And if the workpace, do status equal to 200, then were going to set our user data. So, set on users to workspace data or workspace, do data like this. Okay. And lets see whats the error here. Okay, so, I made a quick Typescript error.

2:55:33
Let me just quickly fix this, guys. Give me a second. Okay, so the data has to be null. Undefined, because we said it can either be undefined right here, right? So, im going to go back in here. And I think this should solve the problem. Okay. Undefined lets go back and see what. Okay, so maybe putting null would probably be better right here. Just makes more sense, right?

2:55:54
But for now, im just going to keep it as undefined. And the other one here is the theres one more parameter, which is enabled. So, im going to just pass an enabled and set it to false. All right. Nice. Okay, cool. Now, we need to have another use effect to handle the debounce and refetch of data. Right?

2:56:14
So, were going to create a use effect in here were going to say, if, if debounce, if this is true, then refetch the data. Okay, then if theres no debounce, so this is not true. Debounce, like this. Then were going to set on users to undefined. And then finally were going to return a cleanup function. Okay, so were going to return the debouncer right here. All right. And do we need a dependency?

2:56:42
Yes, I think, were going to need a dependency. So, im going to pass and debounce in here. So, its going to invoke every time. And now we need to return on search on search. Query, the query itself is fetching and on users. Okay, awesome, guys. All right, guys. So looks like I made an error here. Really, sorry about this.

2:57:05
So, this is, well, the reason why I called it, workspace Search is because it was inside the, like, right below the workspaces right? So, I got a little confused with the naming convention. And, I passed in something really weird. Please forgive me.

2:57:19
This is actually to search for the user, okay, because if you remember when we click on the invite to workspace, we want to show sort of like a search field, where we can render out different users, right? So, different users inside this workspace. So, thats the problem. So, I mean, I made that mistake. I'm, really, really sorry. I'm, just going to go ahead and fix this. And ILL, tell you exactly what you need to do.

2:57:44
Okay, please follow through. So, first thing is close, this right here. You want to go back into your sidebar, and were going to look for the workspace. Okay, we have workspace search, right here. Okay, use query data and lets see what else we have, or actually lets go back into our component, which is our, our workspace search component right here. So, search, workspace. And we can change this to search user, or just search component, right?

2:58:13
This should be better, I think, lets see what we have in here. So, search, workspace, search. I'm, just going to change this to search component. Of course. Change this one to search as well. I'm going to remove this thing right here. So doesnt confuse me anymore. And use search. Okay, this is good. Now, we have get workspace in here, and we have the workspace type. So, I'm going to go back into this.

2:58:37
And you see the type here, right? Were going to change this type to users like this. All right. And once the users is changed, were also going to have an error in here. So were going to change this to users as well. And, okay, and then we lets just take a quick look at what we have in here. Okay, search query, this is fine. This is fine debouncing, this is debounce as well.

2:59:02
Search workspaces lets go into the server action, which is inside the actions. User Typescript, and in here were actually looking for the user, right Were also, are we returning any Okay, were not even returning any workspace stuff. So what well, do is, lets change this here. So were going to change this to search users. Okay, users like this. I'm going to copy this, go back, replace this name as well. Okay, and now lets go up.

2:59:31
Top, lets repport this. So, we dont have any errors. Okay, nice. And this. You can change it if you want as well. So, let me change it together. Users like this and were going to have some more Typescript errors here, I think. Lets see, okay, return the data. So, this is going to be, instead of workspaces lets see if we have. Okay, so users change this to. Users do status 200 set on. Users do users.

2:59:59
DAT. And this is what the data is going to look like, right? And then lets go back one step. And now were going to see this error. So, were going to change this to users. And lets change the query key to get users. Okay. I'm not sure if we also need to change this section, because I think if im not wrong, we did have some. We might need to. All right. Let me think. Guys.

3:00:25
Give me one second or maybe were. Okay. So, were passing this inside this one and were using the query key right here. And this query key. Okay. All right. So, thats the query key. So, thats fine. Okay. Were passing that into user query data, right? So, this is technically used query. And under the hood were doing something in here, right? So, what we do is we can just keep it as get users.

3:00:50
And this should work the same as well. All right. So next, what were going to do in here is were going to invoke use mutation data. So, use mutation data like this, and lets remove this. And this, of course, is another hook we need to create, which is going to help us invite members. Okay, so lets go ahead and grab that. So inside your hooks folder, you're going to create use mutation data. Typescript.

3:01:19
And im also going to quickly copy this. So in here, I can return export con. Oops, sorry. So, this is going to be export const use mutation data, which is an arrow function. And inside this arrow function, we first need to get some parameters. So, lets get the mutation key. And this is going to be of type, mutation key, like this. Okay. The next one is mutation function. Okay, lets change that to case sensitive.

3:01:49
So, mutation function, sorry, camel case. And then were going to say mutation function. Let me see if I can find it. Okay, and were going to pass in two types in here. Any, any. It just requires it. Or its going to probably scream at you. And then we need the query key, which is another type, which is optional. And this is going to be a string. Okay, nice. Dont forget to put this comma here.

3:02:14
Okay, so, and were also going to need another helper function called on success. Okay, and this is also optional. Its just an arrow function that they will send. And its going to be, its going to return nothing, so its going to return void from here. Okay. Now, inside this first thing is, were going to create a client. So, const client, equal use query, client, and were going to invoke that.

3:02:39
And down here were going to invoke use mutation, pass in our key, our mutation function, and the on success function. Okay. And if you dont know what this is, of course, lets go ahead and take a look at what that does. All right. So I was also trying to look it up. But before that, I realized we have an AI, right?

3:02:58
And the AI honestly does a way, a way better job than the documentation as well. So, I'm going to be using this right here. So, just read what it does, right? Essentially, use mutation is designed to handle side effects in your application. So, any API calls that you're making, if they modify any data, like creating them or creating data or updating data, helps you manage that sort of like in a state management approach.

3:03:29
Okay, so if you have an API endpoint, and it creates something, then by using use mutation, you can, you can get to know if you know, your change is still firing, if something is still updating pending, stuff like this, right? So, you see loading error and its successful. So, in our last project, we leveraged the used mutation to also refetch the data, right. But we also updated the response of that API.

3:03:57
So, the cache response, imagine our cache response is kind of stored, like an array, right? So, were, okay, its an object, right Lets just say its an object. We have name, something in here, and we have height. Okay, something in here. So, basically, when we used use mutation, we were trying to simulate optimistic UI, which means the second we make a change on the front end.

3:04:23
We want the data to also be revalidated, but we want the data to instantly have the change in it. Okay, we want to optimistically assume that the data changes or is going to change. And thats 100 going to return a 200 response and were going to mutate the data. So, that way, we have the updated state. And because were using React, its going to instantly update on the front end, right?

3:04:48
So, that was the power of use mutation. Now, we are not using the optimistic approach here, but just to give you an idea that you can use the used mutation hook to create this kind of behavior, okay. So you can use it as a state management approach to your, inside your projects or in your application. Okay. And essentially, you have a mutation function, right? It takes a function that performs the data modification, okay.

3:05:17
And a call back, which provides the hooks for different stages in the mutation. All right, so you're going to see what were, I mean, you're going to see that right here, theres more to this, it doesnt completely explain it, but the better, the best way, okay, its right here, actually. So, mutation, key, a unique identifier for this mutation, right? The reason is because we can cache it internally in react query.

3:05:40
And thats the exact same thing we did in the layout file, right? The other one is a mutation function, the function that will be called to perform the mutation. Okay, so kind of like, think about it as a server action, then the query key, its optional, and essentially, its the key to, which lets see what theyRE saying here, which query should be invalidated after the mutation is successful.

3:06:05
So, remember, each, each request, if we were using used query, we are basically sending in some sort of a key, right? The reason is because we are storing that data from that API. RESP response inside that key, or think about it as the key is equal to that response from that API.

3:06:24
So, if you want to revalidate that data and invalidate what we had previously, then all you would have to do is pass the key and pretty much invalidate it, right, after the mutation is successful. So, thats why we have this query key in here. Okay, next on, success, its just a call back function that essentially allows us to show a toast message or something like that.

3:06:47
So, you see how everything is handled in one single operation, right? And you get caching functionality, which you will not get once you upgrade to next 15, or, you know, so im pretty much setting you up for success. Okay, so, whatever project you use, whenever you watch this video, its still going to be up to date as much as possible. Okay, so lets go ahead and continue.

3:07:08
So, im going to shrink this down, and lets also shrink this a little bit more. Theres too much space there, and in here were going to pretty much say, were going to remove this and say, const were going to invoke use mutation, and were going to destructure a couple values from this. So, we need first, the mutate, and we need is pending. Okay. So, mutate is going to return some sort of data for us. Okay.

3:07:33
And down here, actually, I dont think it returns any data. Yeah, I dont think it returns anything, but its a function you can invoke to essentially start the mutation process. Okay, so in here, now were going to pass in an object for first, one is a mutation key. So, lets go ahead and pass the mutation key. Next mutation function lets do that as well.

3:07:53
Then our on suuccess function is going to be an arrow function, which is going to give us access to these three variables, but we only need data. So, I'm just going to remove everything else. And if on success, so were just going to, or give me one second. Oh, so if the user passed in an on success, then we also want to fire that one, right? So, lets do that one first. Okay.

3:08:17
So, if they provided any sort of success, handler then lets fire that, so on. Success. And then were going to return a toast, which comes from sonar. And lets invoke that and pass in data success. So, let me see. Sorry, status, Oops. Something looks wrong here, guys. Okay, so, this is going to be of type any h. All right. Thats fine.

3:08:42
So, were just going to say status equal to 200. Okay, if this is true, were going to return something or, well, return something else. Okay, just like this. So, what are we going to return here? Well, were going to say success or well, say error. Okay. And the second thing is the data or the options inside the toast.

3:09:04
So, create an object in there and were going to say description and were going to pass in the data, just like this. Okay. Now, after on success on settled is another function. So, lets invoke this one as well. And, and we only need, I think, I dont think we need anything in here really. So we can remove this. And this is actually going to be an async function. So, lets name it this way.

3:09:29
So async function, and in here were going to get access to this arrow, right, this arrow function, and here were going to return, await client, invalidate queries were going to invoke that and were going to say for the specific query key. Okay, so lets pass that in as well. All right. Awesome. So, thats, how were invalidating it once everything is successful. So you can do it here also, if you want.

3:09:54
But on, settled, makees sense based on what the AI was telling us, right? Okay, cool. And now, at the bottom, once everything is done, were just going to return our mutate function here and is pending. Okay, nice. So, now we can reuse this. So lets import our used mutation data. And the first thing is that query key.

3:10:15
So, the query key is going to be called invite DAS member, please do not make any errors in this, because I cannot save you after that. Okay, and here were going to call, were going to destructure, mutate and is pending. And, we also have to pass in some more data. So, its, the callback function, right? So, lets go ahead and pass that one in, and were going to get data.

3:10:37
Here lets destructure that, to get receiver ID. And, this is going to be a string. And we are also going to get the email from this. And, and this is also going to be a string. And in here, we have to fire our, A new server action, called invite members. So, were going to do that in here, and pass this into this. And, that mutation function will fire inside this, this use mutation data. Okay.

3:11:04
So, lets go back and I'm going to copy the name. Use I'm, sorry, invite members. So, copy that. So, its easier to change it. And lets go up to our server actions file, or lets do this guys, because we, we dont really need this right now, which is sending the invitation, lets hide that for now. And just like usual, I'm going to put a work in progress flag.

3:11:29
And I'm going to say, wire up, sending invitations. Okay, we can come back to this when we need it. So, lets go back here. And im going to create a div with the class name. Flex. Flex, D column gap, D, Y5. And inside this, were going to create an input component from components. UI. And first, an on change. And this onchange is going to be the on search query.

3:11:55
Okay, were going to pass that function in here. And thats going to handle itself behind the scenes. But the next one we need is the value here. And this is going to be the query itself. And then we need a class name. So, I'm going to say class name like this, and set it to Bg. D, transparent border. 2 outline. Dnone. Okay. Okay. So, when we click this, we cant really see anything.

3:12:19
So lets go back and try to import that component. So its called search, right. Like, this. Okay, nice. And it also needs some props. It needs a workspace ID. So, lets go ahead and pass the workspace ID equal to workspace ID. Where is that workspace at ID. No, I thought we had it from the params, right? Active workspace ID. I think thats what we need to pass it in here. Okay. Yeah, thats it. All right.

3:12:46
And now we have an input field in here. Next, I'm going to pass in a placeholder and some, and the type, I'm going to set it to text. Okay. So, search for this is wrong. I'm going to say search for user, just like that. Okay. Now, after this, if is fetching its coming from here, so this is good, if is fetching is true, then were going to render something in here. So just render a div.

3:13:13
Okay. Or were going to render something else. So, for this div here, first, ILL pass in the class names of flex. Flex, das column gap, d Y2. And inside this div, im going to return the skeleton component and this skeleton, I think, is, okay. Its coming from Shatan, I believe. So, let me see if its coming from Shatan, or can I create one? I mean, can I just create. Okay, well, just use this one. Okay.

3:13:44
So, skeleton Component were going to set class name to width of full height of 8, and rounded DXL. Okay, next after this. So if we are still fetching for data, then were going to show this. But if not, then were going to check to see if on users exist. And if they, if it doesnt exist, then, well, send a message saying, no users are found.

3:14:09
And if we found users, then were going to map over the users and render each user out. Okay, pretty straightforward, right? Awesome. So here, first step is, were going to check. So, remove this brackets and were going to create. Actually, we dont need to create this. We can just search for if. No. On users. No, on users like this. Theres no on users. Then we need to return something, which is question mark, nothing. Exist.

3:14:38
Do something, do something else. Okay, so, if this exists, then, well, return a paragraph tag with the class last name set to text center text, SMM, and text with a specific color code, which is A4. Okay, and in here were going to say no users found. So. Okay, there you go. You see it. All right. And then if we got users, we need to return a div.

3:15:08
And inside the div were going to look loop over the on users map. And for each of these, sorry, I think im making an error here. Okay, this is correct. And for each of these, well, return another div. Okay, awesome. First were going to pass in the key. So, user IDID, and this user is going to come from this user, right?

3:15:28
So were going to say user ID, like this, pass it in here, and then we need some class names for some styling, which is flex gap, D, X3 items. Center border, D2 with a full P3, rounded XL. Okay, and, and Awesome. And the other thing is inside this, were going to create an avatar. So, what ill do right now, guys, is, let me remove this section here. And ill just add some text here for now.

3:15:59
And above this, im just going to render it. So we can see what that looks like. Okay, so lets see on users, what is it saying? So, if on users exist, then, well, render something out. So lets see what that looks like. Okay, its not able to map over. Okay. So, so I just commented this one out. So all you have to do is copy, paste it in the bottom. Okay.

3:16:21
But I want to see what im, write, what, I'm typing. So, I just created an empty array, an array with one element. And I said ID to something. Okay. So, as we go, ILL, keep adding to this. But right now, I think this is the first thing we need. So, return a div inside this. Do map. And dont forget to get users here. Put in the key and the class name.

3:16:41
Okay, next is we need the avatar. And this avatar comes from shad. Ceni. Okay, so I copied it from Shat CI, and paste it in here. And im just going to go ahead and import this as well. So, import the fallback component. And the user from Lucid react. And now we need image in here. So, im going to say image and just set this to something for now.

3:17:03
So, lets go in here, put a comma like this, and just put something in here. I think they already have a fallback. All right, nice. And the, I mean, we already put the fallback. So its going to show a fallback in here. And after this is done down here, you're going to say div. And inside this div, give it a class name of flex. I made a spelling error. This is flex. Flex. D column items.

3:17:29
Dart. Okay. And in here, we want to create an H3, or yeah, H3 would be better. And inside this were going to say class text, bold text, LG, and capitalize. Okay, and inside the H3 were going to say user dot. And now we need to create first name, first name, like this, or first name. This should be fine as well.

3:17:54
And I'm just going to say parent and lets also create the last name while were already at it. Okay, nice. And down here were going to say first name and then put a space, or Yeah. Okay. You can put a space if you want, and just say user last name. Okay, user last name. Awesome. Lets see what that looks like. Hey, look at that. Nice.

3:18:15
And after this, we, we need a paragraph tag with the class name, lowercase text, xs. And then we need Bg, d, white padding, x of two rounded dlG. Then we need text dash and were going to need a specific color, which is 1, E, 1e, 1e. Okay. Or h. Okay. Yeah. This is good. And after that, inside this were going to say user dot, now we have subscription. Do plan. Okay.

3:18:47
So in here were going to also add that subscription. So scroll up top were going to say subscription. Okay. And this is going to have plan, and im just going to say free plan for now. Okay, just see what that looks like. Look at that. Looks nice, right? So if you have pro plan, itll look like this. Okay, nice. All right.

3:19:09
So, what im going to do now is I still have some more to show in here, which is the invite button. So, after this, div were going to create another div with the following class name. So flex 1, flex. Justify, justify end items, center. Okay. And inside this were going to create a button, and this button is going to have an on click handler. Its is going to be an arrow function.

3:19:34
And, well, get to that in just a second. But, or we can actually do it right now. So, or, well, well, wait for that. Okay, because we dont need, were not going to be submitting the user yet, right? We still have a work in progress flag for them. So, well, come back to inviting users in a second. Lets just finish the layout stuff, because thats the most important, right?

3:19:52
So, after this were going to say variant, and set the variant to default. And then we also need a class name of width of five divided by 12. And then were going to have font. Das. Bolt. Okay. And inside this were going to create a loader component loader from our loader file. And you want to import and inside this, you want to essentially put the invite, like this. Okay.

3:20:21
Invite, like this, but you also have to show the state, the is pending state. So, ILL set the state right now to true and color, I will set it to 0, z. Okay, so it looks like this. And right now, you see its going to kind of show this loading animation, when you click on it, right Or else, its just going to stay as is, and something else is wrong here.

3:20:44
Let me see whats going on. Okay, nothing is wrong. Its just because the state here is when you set this to true, the color of the loader is white. So, maybe you can change the color if youd, like, or, you know, change the button color. But for now, I'm just going to say state equal false. Okay, just like this. Nice. And thats it. You see invite here.

3:21:07
So, when you click this, our onclick handler will get fired. And our onclick handler comes from this one right here, which were yet to create. So, we have wire up, send invitations. And we also have to wire up the button. So, im going to have two work in progress, flags. Wire up. Invite button in UI. Okay, awesome. Great job, guys. Next, im going to copy this. Remove all of this. So, till this div, please follow with me.

3:21:35
Okay, this div till here. Remove it. And you're going to find this map, right? We just created this. So, remove this one as well. And then in here, you want to uncomment whatever we have in here. Remove the string, cuz. I had that before. And im going to remove this div on the inside and return the new div that we just created. Okay, thats pretty much it.

3:21:57
So, now, its, not no longer going to show, cuz, we have wired it up with this. I see some errors here. I think this might just be Typescript. Okay. Its just Typescript. Nice. And thats it. So, now, after this model, we want to also wrap this model only if the user has a pro plan, right? So, how can we do this?

3:22:17
Well, one way we can do this is we can use this button to kind of show that the user has to upgrade to pro. Or we can keep this model as is, and remove it for people who are on the public, of the public account. Sorry, its not pro account. What, what that means is each workspace can be of type pro or public, right? So, sorry, it can be personal or public.

3:22:41
So, we want the user to be on a pro plan, and they, it has to be a public workspace. So thats the most important part, right? So, first thing were going to do is wrap all of this in a bracket, like this, and were going to say, current workspace. And if this exist, and this is equal to equal to public, okay, public. But from this, we need to actually get the type.

3:23:03
And of course, we dont have this right now. So were going to go, grab that first, but I just want to say, if this is public, workspace, then render out the model. So, lets go ahead and grab the current workspace details. So were going to say, const current workspace, equal workspace, do workspace, doind. All right, invoke that. And in the callback function, were going to get the workspace here.

3:23:27
So, I'm just going to say S, something like this should be good. And remove this. So s ID equal to equal to active workspace ID. Okay, so that specific one is the only thing were going to render out here. So, boom, there you go, it disappears, because this is no longer a public workspace, this is a private workspace, okay. And the other thing is only users who are on a paid plan can do this.

3:23:54
So, I'm going to go ahead and create one more right here. So, I'm going to say, workspace dos subscription plan. So, if this exists, Oops, I'm making some errors here. Okay, plan, if this is equal to pro plan, then were going to render the following. Okay, so it has to be public, and a pro workspace. Awesome.

3:24:16
Now, scroll down here, after modal were going to create a paragraph tag and pl pass in the following class name, which is with full text, dash9, D9, D9D. Okay, and inside this were going to Al actually, theres one more, we need to pass in here, which is font. Das, bold and margin, top of four. Okay, and in here were going to say menu like this. All right, looks nice.

3:24:40
And after this, were going to create a nav element. Okay, and were going to create a class name, say with full and inside this, create a unordered list. Now, I did something a little creative here. And I want to show you how to do this, instead of just copy pasting this. Okay, so please follow with me. So, it makes sense, and you understand whats going on.

3:25:03
So, if we create a constant that holds all the different type of menu items along with their icons or the title itself. And we render out those titles right here, that will work, right? Well, have all of the different menu items and the icons. So, users can see the menu bar right here. But I hope you realize that this is a dynamic route.

3:25:28
And what that means is, for this specific workspace, we have to also have access to things like library, or other, you know, other PThs as well, like notifications and settings and so on. Right, so, this ID has to be d damic. So, we cant just create an object and wire it up in here, right? We can do it in here.

3:25:53
Of course, we can get the active workspace ID and we can just passen the ID into that and create all of the, you know, the constant variables in here. But that also means that its not really reusable, right? And more than reusable, its just going to look so ugly. All right. You probably want to put it in a constants file.

3:26:13
This is only supposed to do nothing else, but have, you know, only the styling and code for these things. Anything that is a constant reusable variable, you can remove it and put it in a different file. So, the way I approached this was first, I created a constants folder in the root folder, right? So inside source, and then index, TSX.

3:26:35
And now, instead of creating an, a function, sorry, a variable, like export const menu, items equal to, and an array with all the different objects were going to return an arrow function instead. Okay, and this arrow function will taken the workspace ID, which is going to be a string. And now, we can use this workspace IDid dynamically and pass it into the returned array. And thats, pretty much it. Thats all we need to do. Okay.

3:27:07
And we can also get type Intellisense here. So, im going to create an object Here were going to say title, which is going to be string. HRE. Please follow with me. Okay, please type each and every single thing you're going to learn, I'm doing it myself, because you guys wanted it. Okay, so, I expect you to at least practice and do this with me. So, you truly learn how to develop SAS applications.

3:27:28
Okay, so this is React, react node. So, im going to import that one as well. And, this is going to be an array. Now, I see something wrong here. Let me see whats going on. So, the reason why this is screaming, is im not returning an array of this stuff. So, im going to change this to an array. And, the next thing is, im going to create an object with all of the following.

3:27:46
So, title were going to set it to home. The href is going to be, were going to use the back ticks and were going to say, slash, dashboard, slash dollar sign, and the curly bracket workspace ID, and then were going to say, homepage. Okay, and the homepage is kind of like an onboarding page, its not really this page, where we have, you know, all of the, the users videos, thats the library page.

3:28:14
The homepage is like an onboarding where we can share our own videos, right? I hope you saw the demo. And finally, we need the icons. Now, heres what I want you to do, go into our Github repository, and please follow each step that I tell you. Okay, so inside the source folder, inside our Github, you're going to find an icons folder.

3:28:35
Please download this entire icons folder and drag and drop it into your components folder right here. Okay, so go ahead, pause this video, and please do that, that, and then, well, continue from there. All right, hopefully you did it as well. But you should have something that looks exactly like this. Okay, a bunch of really nice components that you can use in your application.

3:28:58
Okay, so just keep one thing in mind that eventually, like we would want you guys to type more code and learn. And as a result, we wont be having the code base open, right, cuz, right now. Its completely free. So, please download this right now and keep it with you. Okay, but, yeah, thats pretty much it. So, lets move on. Now, the first thing we need is the icon here.

3:29:20
So lets grab the icon, and this icon is going to be the home icon from our folder. So components, sl ion, and just import that. Okay. And this is duo te icons, that we have from our figma that we directly exported as SVgs. And we stor it in here. Okay, thats pretty much it. Next, were going to need this for multiple different path. Im, just going to duplicate this real quick. All right, that looks good.

3:29:51
This one is going to be called my library. Okay. Oops. I made a spelling error here. All right. Nice notifications. And then the next one is billing. And finally, we have settings. Okay, I'm going to remove the final one here. And now, we got to change these icons and stuff as well. So, im going to go ahead and do that. So, for the library, im going to use the file, duo tone, maybe the white one.

3:30:16
Okay, use the black one. Okay, I think its the dark mode icon. So, use that one and were going to change this here to just the default route, because thats what the library folder is. Okay. The library routes is for notifications. You want to change this to notifications. Okay. And were going to remove this and import the Bell icon. All right. Awesome. And down here, this is the billing page.

3:30:39
So, were going to change this to Billing. And I'm going to change all of this to the billing, or I think its a card, credit card icon. Yep. So, import the credit card icon as well. And this one is a settings page. So, change this to settings, and the icon is going to change to settings. Okay, nice. So, now we have all the elements, all the menu items.

3:31:01
So we can simply loop over this passing a dynamic ID. And we can also get the href for that ID as well. So, lets go back and down here, we can now render these elements. So, inside this unordered list, im going to say menu item items. So, menu, or actually, let me go up here and directly do it here. So, it makes more sense. So, const menu items equal to menu items, invoke it.

3:31:27
And you want to pass in the active workspace ID. Okay, nice. And now you can also get type Intellisense from this. Awesome. So, lets scroll all the way down and were going to say menu items. Map. And for each of this, were going to return something in here. Okay, so I'm just going to create a placeholder or I can remove this. And I can pass in the sidebar item as a placeholder. Instead, sidebar item.

3:31:54
Okay, or I think we had a select item or lets do this, guys. Let me create a custom component called sidebar item. And then we will, we will fix this. Okay, so open up your folder structure. You're going to go into your sidebar, create another file in here called sidebar D. Item. TSX. And inside this, return a new component and rename it. Now, this is going to have the following. Props, please pause and type. Okay.

3:32:19
They have icon, title, hF selected, and notifications, which is a number. Okay, and its optional next down here, im going to also destructure all these values. And that should do it. And here, im going to create a list item element. Okay, so create an LI element with the following class name. So, cursor das pointer. Okay, and then we need margin y of 5 pixels like this.

3:32:46
And inside this, we need to create the link item from next link. Okay, and this is going to have a class name. Were going to invoke this and pass in the CN function. Invoke that as well. And then were going to say, flex items, das, center. Justify between group rounded dlg hover bg. Das, and were going to change this color. So please type this hex code with me. Okay, its 1d, 1d, 1d.

3:33:13
And in here, after this part, we can put a comma and we can say selected. If this is true, then were going to return something else. If not, well, return something else here. So what we going to return, if this is true, the background is going to be set to a different color. Okay. So, lets change this one more time. Okay, like this. Nice. And if not, well, just return an empty string. Okay. Cool.

3:33:38
And now its screaming for the HRE. So, lets pass in the HRE and lets get it from our props and pass it down in here. And then finally were going to need to pass some data in here, right? So, create a div I created properly. All right, there we go. Class name of flex, item, center gap of two. Transition all. And then we need padding of five pixels.

3:34:01
And then we need cursor pointer, why is it not giving me? Cursor pointer? Okay, nice. And in here, im going to pass in the icon. Okay, and after the icon, we need a span with the following class names. So were going to invoke this. Oh, sorry. Were going to open this and were going to pass in CN function. And in CN were going to say font.

3:34:23
D, medium were going to say group hover group hover So, basically, when we hover over this one, right, so if you dont know how group works, its really cool tailwind has a way for you to change child elements based on a parent element action. Okay, so group is a pseudo element. So you can use this group.

3:34:43
And based on, sorry, hover is, so you can use group, and based on it being hovered, you can set a certain type of style. Okay. So here, first thing is font, medium for hover were going to set the text to a different color. Okay, this is the color we want. And then im going to say, transition, transition, all truncate, and then width of 32. Okay.

3:35:07
And then here, put a comma and say selected, if this is selected, then were going to change, were going to do something here, and then if not, return another string. So for this were going to change the text to a different color. So 9090. And here, if this did not work, so if its not selected, then were going to return a different color. So, this is 54,54.54. Okay, nice.

3:35:33
And inside the span, now, you can render the title like this. Awesome. Looks great. And after this div, you can now render any notifications for that. Okay, so im going to go back and also open this and lets import this element. So we can see what we did. So, sidebar, item and lets pass in the href first. So, we have the href here, which comes from item right here. So, item, tile. Pass in.

3:35:59
If this is, sorry, if this is my library, then were going to pass in the following. Href. Or technically lets just remove all of this. And we dont really need this, right? We can say item hre. Okay. If I need to change this later, just to show the, the users their library itself instead of the other workspace, and ILL, come back to that. But for now, I'm just going to keep it like this.

3:36:22
Okay, then we need the icon. So, lets go ahead and pass in the icon. And then selected is going to be a Boolean value. So, lets scroll all the way up top and were going to say const path name equal to use path name. Okay, use path name. Invoke that. And now we can move this all the way up top, cuz its a hook. All right. And we can get this path name down here, here.

3:36:45
And we can say, if path name is equal to the title, sorry, path name is equal to item HRe, then we will render. We will render it as selected, right. And then next one is, the title is going to be equal to the item tile. And then we have key, which is going to be equal to item key, item tile as well.

3:37:08
And for notifications, item title, if its equal to notifications, then were going to pass in account for the notification. Okay, so, lets go ahead and grab that as well. So, scroll all the way up top and right below. This were going to say const data count, so, were destructuring, count from a notifications. And these notifications come from a different query data. So, lets go ahead and say const data notifications equal to use query data.

3:37:42
And lets invoke that. And lets pass in the query key, right, so, we need the user notifications like this. And after this, we need to pass in the server action to perform. So, we dont have this right now. Or do. Oh, we do. Okay, cool. So, lets import the get notifications itself. And we also need to create a prop for this, right? But, essentially all were doing is, were destructuring from data.

3:38:07
We are destructuring the counts. Okay, so lets go ahead and create the notification, props. So, ILL, scroll down in my folder structure, go to types. And inside this, at the bottom, I'm going to say, export type notification props equal to an object like this. And inside this first status is going to be of type number, right? And then data, Oops, I'm making some errors.

3:38:34
Data is going to be an object here as well, but were going to have count, which is going to have notification set to a number. Okay, like this. Nice. And now we can export this from here. So we can import it directly from here. Why is it not showing? Let me see if I made some errors here. Okay, so just import notification props. And that should solve our problem. Okay, nice. Now lets scroll down.

3:38:59
Okay, so, I made a spelling error here as well, guys. So, go back into notification. Props and remove this. Count. Thats why I hate typing, man. Copy pasting is easier for me, guys. Cu. You guys get to see the same thing. Just let me know. Okay, if thats easier, it makes my life easy. I dont make stupid spelling errors. But anyway, so now we have this. So were essentially saying return the counts, right?

3:39:19
So if its notifications and counts exist, right? Well, return that. If not. Well, check notifications as well. Okay, or so. If this is true, it will use this value. If not, it will render number zero. Thats basically what were doing in here. Okay, so hopefully, that was slightly easier to understand. And im also going to remove this and just change it to a closed component. Okay, nice. And there you go. Beautiful. Navbar looks super minimalistic.

3:39:46
And if you click on one of these, of course, right now, its going to take me directly to the to that page. But im also going to get a 44 right, but lets click and see what happens. Boom. So, we go to the right page, dashboard. Sl this slome. Thats exactly what we want to see. All right, great job, guys. Now, after this, nav were going to have a separator component.

3:40:06
So, please do this and put the following class name. Then we need a paragraph with withd full text, 90,909D font, both, and margin, top of four, because now were going to render out the workspaces All right, so just need to refresh for some reason, but there you go. Now, we can see the workspaces in here. Now, this, again, is another nav.

3:40:27
So were going to create another nav here with a class name set to full, and lets create a unordered list with a class name set to height of 100, oops, 150 pixels. Hello. Okay. There we go. Overflow set to auto. Okay, and then we need Overflow x set to hidden, were going to need fade layer. So remember, we created this, this cool class name, right That creates a fade effects.

3:40:52
You're going to see that really quick. So fade layer. And then, for now, what im going to do is, instead of having the, what do you call that, instead of pretty much rendering out the element inside the if condition, I'm just going to render the element.

3:41:09
So we can see what it looks like, okay, I think, were going to be able to see it anyway, because were going to have two sections, right, first, one of the workspace will be private workspaces or sorry, the, their own workspaces, right. And then after that, well, show workspaces that they are a part of. So, other workspaces that they have been invited to. Right, so lets go ahead and do that.

3:41:32
So, workspaceworkspace, do length, if this is greater than one, and the workspaceworkspace, do map. Oops. What, what is this? Okay, so this is, and like that. And then here were going to map over this, and were going to render something out. Okay, so were going to return first lets grab the item from here, but were going to return the sidebar item component. All right, the same thing, lets go ahead and return that one.

3:42:00
But this is going to need the following details. So, first, were going to pass in the dashboard, but the item and the item ID. Okay, then the next thing we need is the icon itself. But before I get to icon, let me also pass in these selected. So for selected, if the path name is equal to Dashboard. And this specific ID, then its true, so, itll be selected inside.

3:42:24
Okay, I mean, under the hood, were essentially selecting it. I showed you right? Thats right here. Okay, and then after this were going to pass in, the title, were going to pass in notifications as zero. And we also need the key. So, lets go ahead and pass the key in as well. And its still yelling at me. And the reason is because I still need the icon.

3:42:42
So, for the icon, were going to create an another custom component. And this component is called workspace, PL, workspace, placeholder. Okay, so icon is equal to workspace placeholder. And im going to select this. And lets go ahead and create this component inside this file, you want to create the workspace place holder, TSX, return a new component and rename this component as well. So first, were going to get children elements from the props.

3:43:13
So I'm going to import that and lets also structure the children elements down here. Next, remove this and were going to return a span. Okay, a span element with a class name. So first, the Bg, so background is set to the following color. Flex items. Center, we have font, bold, justify center as well. We have W of 8. So width, 8 padding, x of two height of seven, rounded, of small text of the following color.

3:43:45
So its t 1 D, 1D, 1D, all right. And inside this were going to pass in those children elements. Okay, so lets go back and quickly import this element. And now inside this, we can pass in the item and the name of the element itself, right? The workspace. So were going to say item, workspace, sorry, item name, character at, because I only want the first element at zero. Okay, so lets see what that looks like.

3:44:12
All right. Awesome. We dont see anything thats, because lets see whats the condition here. Workspace, do workspace, do length. Okay. This is fine. No problem. Dont worry about it, I think, were just not rendering it rending, rendering it out correctly. So, let me see whats going on. All right, guys. So the mistake I made in here was I set this to one, so this needs to become zero. Okay.

3:44:35
And I just console logged the stuff just to see whats going on. So, ILL, just remove that real quick, but thats pretty much it. So, now you can see the fade layer, right? So, if you have multiple of these components, going to look really, really cool. So, let me see if I can show you more in here. All right, and there you go. Now, we have all the workspaces showing in here.

3:44:55
And all I did was just duplicate a workspace under this, and put everything inside a React fragment. Okay, so one thing I want to clear up, let me first remove all of this. We no longer need it. All right. And also remove our React fragments. Nice. So, the thing I want to clear up here is, what are we rendering here? So, if there was any confusion, hopefully this can clear that confusion.

3:45:17
Okay, the first half is going to be all the workspaces that the user owns, but that are not a personal workspace. Okay, so ILL say that one more time, the first render here are all the workspaces that the user owns, but they are not personal workspaces Okay, so if they create another workspace, then well, show it in here. Thats pretty much it. All right.

3:45:40
Then the other one is the second render, which were going to do right below this, which is pretty much the same thing, but were going to show another set of workspaces And these workspaces are all the workspaces that they are members of. Okay. I hope that makes sense, because remember, we can invite team members, right? So, thats why we want to render two different halves.

3:46:01
It doesnt really matter, but the reason why I'm doing it this way is its just easier to understand. First, half is all workspaces they own second half is all shared workspaces Okay. You can also be a little creative and create a separator, put a title, all that kind of stuff. But for now, this is what I think, I mean, this is all we need pretty much, all right, we understand what were doing, right?

3:46:23
So, how do we do this Item type is not equal to personal. And only then, are we going to render this out? Okay. Then down here, I want you to create another bracket, like this, curly brace. And inside this were going to say workspace, do members. Okay. So length, if this is greater than zero, I made a spelling error here. Let me just fix this.

3:46:49
So if it is greater than zero, then were going to loop over the memberships that they have. So do map, why is it doing this? Okay, map. And were going to return an element down here as well. So, the element were going to return is pretty much the exact same thing. So, for now, what im going to do is I'm just going to copy this element, right.

3:47:13
And down here, ILL just return, this looks like I made an error here as well. Okay, this should solve that problem. Nice. Now, we do have to change some stuff. So please just follow with me. So, im going to say item in here. Now, down here, instead of item, were going to change this to workspace, doid. Okay, and same thing here as well.

3:47:37
So this is the selected, and we want to make sure this is workspace, doid, like this. Nice. And down here for title, its going to be workspace, do name, this is good to go. Okay, and same thing here as well. Workspace, do name and lets see, okay, so for this one, pretty much the same thing as well. Workspace, why is it not showing? Okay, there we go, name, character at all, right? Awesome.

3:48:06
And yeah, thats pretty much it. So now were rendering all the membership workspaces as well. Now, down here, guys, right here, you're going to say you're going to open another curly brackets. And inside this, were essentially going to say, workspace, do workspace, do length. Okay, if this is equal to one, then were going to say, workspace, do members length, if this is equal to zero, then were going to return a divin here.

3:48:35
That gives the user the U, a message that says, upgrade to create a workspace. Okay. And thats only if they are on a free tier. So thats what were going to do down here. So, basically, kind of restricting all of their access, right? So lets go down here. And for this div, im going to give the following class name, width of full, like this height of full as well.

3:48:59
Flex, justify center items, center, and inside the paragraph. So, create another paragraph tool, were going to create another class name. And this text is, I mean, were going to add some styles here too. And this one is going to be as follows. Please type this out with me. And after that, were going to say font, medium, not mono medium. Okay, and then text, SMM.

3:49:23
Okay, and in here, whatever we render will pretty much just show up like this. Okay, so were going to say, if the workspace dos subscription plan, I made an error here. Again, do subscription plan, like this is equal to free tier, then were going to render something, if not, well, render or something else. And in this part were going to say, upgrade to create workspaces Okay. And down here, we can say no workspaces at all.

3:49:55
All right, guys. So I made a quick change as well. So, remember, whatever was down here, right? What We just entered. Just grab all of that. And you want to scroll up top. And after the workspaces, you want to paste it down here. Okay, that way it shows in here. And it doesnt look weird, cuz, showing it right in the center. Now that I look at it, it looks really weird.

3:50:14
So, put it right below this, and you can put like a little bubble or an icon maybe. Let me go ahead and try to do that as well. Okay, that actually looks even worse. So, I'm just going to leave it at what it is. Now, first thing is for the div, just change the class name, you want to say, with full margin, top of nega 10 pixels. Okay. And padding, I mean, sorry, paragraph.

3:50:34
This can stay, as is no problem. And yeah, thats pretty much it. So, now, its going to be right here. And you can also change the color of the text if you want. I like the low contrast design. It doesnt hurt my, my eye. So im going to use these colors. All right, now, scroll all the way down here.

3:50:49
After this nav, you want to create a separator component with a class name, and this class name is going to have width four, 5. So 4. F and down here were going to say workspace dos subscription plan. If this is equal to free, then were going to render out a message, basically, were going to show them a button and through this button, they can essentially connect, sorry, upgrade to the pro plan.

3:51:15
Okay, so I'm going to say, and, and down here were going to render a fragment just for now, and lets, go ahead and create that card. So, open up your folder structure, go into components under global. And you want to call this global DAS card, because were going to use this a lot. Okay. Now, give this an index. TSX. Return a new component and change it to global card, just like this.

3:51:40
And the first thing is, were going to need a bunch of props, right? So were going to need title, which is a string description, which is going to be a string as well. All right, were going to need children, which is react, react node and footer element, which is optional, which is also a React node. Then go ahead and destructure everything right here. And now, we can return that card component.

3:52:04
So, first thing is, IVE already pasted all the imports here, so I dont have to struggle. But first thing is we need a card component with background, transparent margin, top of four. And now, inside this, well, paste whatever we want. But lets go back and quickly render this component out. So we can see whats going on. So, im going to say global card and were going to import it like this.

3:52:27
And inside this, we can essentially, I guess we dont, really need to show anything for now, lets just go back to the component itself, and lets complete this component. Next, inside this, you want to provide the card header, and you want to give it padding of four. Next, the header is going to have the title and the description. Simple, right?

3:52:47
So, render the title with text, medium, and with this color for the fonts and render, render the title inside this, and the description right, after with the following text color. And im going to render the description inside that, and then were going to also need to render the children. So, im going to say, div. And actually, ILL put this after the header, right?

3:53:08
So, class name, padding, top of four, and were going to render all the children elements. Now lets go back and lets provide whatever we need to provide in here. So, the first thing we need is the title. So, title is going to be upgrade to Pro. Very simple, right? And the description is going to be unlock. Ai features like transcription, ai summary, and more.

3:53:30
And now, inside this global card component, I'm just going to render out a button with the following class name. So, please type this with me. Text, small with full and margin, top of two, and inside this button, I'm going to show a loader component. Okay, and it comes from our loader file. So, let me render that as well. And I'm just going to say update in here.

3:53:53
And let me go ahead and also change some stuff. Or actually, this should be called upgrade. Sorry about that. So, upgrade, nice. All right, now, I'm going to make some more changes to this, because I did not like what we did before. So, go back into your global card, change children to basically be optional. And after that, down here were going to condition, render them.

3:54:15
So, if children are available, render the children components, if footer is available, render a card footer and were going to provide the following. And the next thing is for this div for the children. Elements, give it padding of four, and lets go back. And now we can provide the button as a footer. Now, in the future, we are going to, of course, change this to a payment component.

3:54:35
So, im going to scroll up top, right, up, top here, and im going to say, work in progress. Add the upgrade button. Okay, and that upgrade buttons functionality. I would like for you to also reuse for other sections as well. But I will show you how to do it here. So, you can reuse the same logic. Okay. All right. Now, heres a kind of like a strategy.

3:54:57
All right, or like a trick of how you can render the same Navar, for two different devices. So, now were on a desktop. So, if I shrink the device, you see its going to be the same width. And this Nav bar is kind of like, in the way, right? I dont, actually like that. I dont know if, if you like it or not, but I hate it.

3:55:15
So, it would be very redundant for us to create a whole different file with a different Navbar. And pretty much copy paste the entire thing here, right? Instead, what we can do is render all the elements that are inside the sidebar, inside the mobile sidebar as well. So, heres the, the trick you want to go up top. And instead of returning this component, were actually going to set const sidebar section.

3:55:42
Okay, and were going to set it to this variable. Of course, everythings going to disappear. Dont worry about it. We want to scroll down to all the way to the bottom, right. So, this, the last thing you should see here is overflow hidden. All right, if you dont, see this, that means you're. That means you deleted something. So, please make sure its the exact same component. Okay, so scroll all the way down.

3:56:03
And after this, right at the bottom, where you see this bracket. Down here, you want to return another element. So, were going to return a div. And this div is going to have a class name of full. And inside this, we can add more stuff in here. But for now, im going to first add the, let me actually tell you whats in here.

3:56:23
So, the first one is going to be the info bar, okay, but we dont have this right now. But, well, create that later. And the next one is going to be a sheet component. Thats going to help us open up this sidebar on mobile and the desktop component. Okay, so lets go ahead and grab that. So first, lets do this section. So create a div here, not a directory, sorry, a div element.

3:56:48
And were going to create a class, say, from medium devices, we want this to be hidden, right? So, then youll, have to add this class right here. And were going to change this to fixed. And my, of four. Okay. Now, inside this, were going to create that sheet component. So, grab sheet from components. UI. And inside this, first thing we need is the sheet trigger. So, lets import that one as well.

3:57:14
And this has to be set as child. And lets give it some styling as well. So, I'm going to say, margin left of two and inside the trigger were going to create a button component. And I think I already imported it for the other side, right, for the other component up here. So, it should be good. And we need the variant. And the variant is going to be ghost. All right.

3:57:36
And lets give it a class name of margin. Top of two pixels. Okay, made a spelling error here. So lets just move this. All right, so margin, top of two pixels, and inside this button, were going to use our menu component that we created that we used previously, right? This is actually, sorry, guys, this is not. We didnt create this, its an icon. So go ahead and import this menu component from lucid React. All right.

3:58:03
Nice. And now, after the trigger, we have to render the sheet content. So lets go ahead and say, side. We want this to be left, side, right? And then class name. Padding of zero. With, Oops. Why is it not? Okay, class name. And were going to do padding of zero with a fit width, fit and height. Full. Okay, I think I made another spelling error here. So, lets remove that. All right, nice.

3:58:29
And now, inside this were going to render out the sidebar section that we just created. So, lets just give that a second. Okay, so now, when you shrink the page, you're going to see the mobile version of our sidebar. So, if you click on it. Awesome. There you go. Super simple, right? We didnt have to build a whole different sidebar, but you're going to notice that after Medium devices, its going to disappear.

3:58:51
So, lets go ahead in, build the element, to render that one out as well. So create a div. And the class name is going to be from Medium devices, set it to block, but by default, we want it to be hidden. And then were going to set the height to full. And now, we can render out the sidebar section that we created in here as well.

3:59:08
So now, if you open this, you see from medium devices, it shows, but on small devices, it disappears. So this is much more efficient, because that way, you dont, have to create another file called mobile sidebar, and then need to render that out. Its just a big headache. Okay, so lets go ahead and create our info bar. So, scroll up top right here, and lets remove this And were going to say, infobar component like this.

3:59:32
Now copy this, go into your global components, create another folder, call it info, dasar. And inside that U, you can create an index, tsX file, and return, return a component in here, and rename it to Infobar. First thing is, lets return a header element. Okay, just like this. And this is going to have the following class name. Now, to solve this error, im also going to go back real quick and import this infobar component.

3:59:59
So, lets refresh and see if that solved our problem. All right. Awesome. And now, inside this, we need to create a div. So, create it like this, and give it the following class name as well. And inside this one, were we going to use a, an icon. Okay, and the first one is the search icon. So, right here were essentially creating that search field, right? So, im going to say search like this.

4:00:24
And im going to import it from lucid React, please pause and type with me. Okay. And were going to give the size and the following class name for it as well. And next, we have to create that input component. So I'm going to say input and lets import this component as well. The first thing it needs is class name. So, BG, D, transparent order. None.

4:00:45
We need important placeholder, das neutral 50, or actually lets make this 500. And as you can see, its also forming right up top here, right? You can see this. Awesome. And after the actually one more, we need the placeholder as well. And the placeholder is going to be set to search for people, projects, tags, and folders. All right, something like this. So does it pop? All right. Awesome. There we go.

4:01:13
So, just keep this in mind. This is just for UI sake. Okay, just for things to look nicer. I have already created a way to search using a hook, right? The use, use search, hook, so ID, like for you to take that up as a challenge and try to implement the search functionality to look for, you know, people, members, projects or anything else within that.

4:01:37
Okay, even, including folders, tags were not, I dont, think, were going to be using these. I think it was just it was, is pretty much pointless, CUz, thats just crUD, right? But you get the point. So, IVE already showed you how to do it. So once this project is done, when we need to get to that, or when, at the end of the project, please finish that challenge.

4:01:57
Okay, so next, I'm going to create a div here with the following class names, flex, items, center and gap of four. And inside this, I want a button. Okay, and this button is also going to have the following class names. So please add this specific style here. So its going to be 90,90.90 Okay. And then after that, flex items, center. Okay, and we need gap of two.

4:02:24
So this is essentially just buttons on the right side. If you have the figma file with you, you can actually take a look at it and just kind of build with us, right? But now I need to have an upload icon. Where is this coming from Lucid React? Okay, and were going to give it a size, and this size is going to be 30. Okay.

4:02:43
And I'm going to create a space in here for our span. And now I can say flex items, center gap of four gap of two. Okay. So, now we have that upload icon right here. Let me increase this. Okay, so let me shorten this actually, all right. Thats so much better. And in here were going to say upload.

4:03:05
Okay, again, this is not a requirement were not actually going to be doing the upload functionality, but its just to make it look so much better. Okay, this is too huge, guys. Im going to reduce this to 20. All right, thats so much better. Nice. Now, after the span after this button here, we want to create another button. So, instead of sitting and typing, I'm, just going to duplicate this.

4:03:27
Okay, and for this one, were going to remove this icon and were going to use a video recorder icon. Its a duo tone icon, I guess. Okay, this one right here. Okay, not the duone icon, its the video recorder icon. Okay, so make sure you import that. And after this, for this span, here were going to change this and say record.

4:03:48
Okay, again, this will be a challenge, because we are using the ElectronJS application instead to record the screen, right? Because if you are using the browser version, to record the screen, you're going to have a lot of restrictions, you cannot access the, you know, the, the lo, the system, the hardware system, and kind of look at what their, what screen they want to share and stuff like that.

4:04:10
So thats why you would want to use the ElectronJS version. Okay, so this part would just be a challenge, I'm, just creating it right here. So, it looks nicer for our application. And if you are also looking to become a full stack developer, having these things, at least some things on your page that dont do everything that dont do its intended functionalities, totally fine, right? We just want to show the UI skills.

4:04:34
At the end of the day, UI developers get paid way more, then back. And, and, you know, full stack. So sometimes, if you need to create features like this, that just, you know, have a UI, but dont actually do anything thats totally fine. Okay, IVE done that as well, right? So, yeah. Now, after this, we need the user button.

4:04:53
Okay, and this is why clerk is amazing, because we can just say user button like this, and import the circle, which is the user avatar. Okay, so let me refresh real quick. Just give me a second. Hey, look at that. Awesome. And now I can also sign out pretty much do whatever I want to do. Okay, great. Good job, guys. So, now, now that this is done, I'm going to go back into my dashboard route.

4:05:17
So, lets shrink all of this dashboard right here. And im going to go into my, into this layout. TSX. And this is where we created the sidebar right now, lets quickly take a look at our Figma design.

4:05:29
Now, again, if you want to know how our amazing Figma design was built using reusable components, flex, boox and all this kind of cool stuff, including this entire library that is wired up with shat C and UI components, right? If you want to take, take a look at it, theres a link in the description. You can grab it from there. Okay.

4:05:46
But just to show you what were building before we start, you see this section right here. This is going to be the same thing for every single page, right? We have so many pages here, and we are using the same type of section there. All right. So we can make this a reusable component. So, lets go back in here. And inside this div were going to create another div for that.

4:06:08
Were going to give it the class name of width of full padding. Top of 28, padding of six around Overflow. I think I made a spelling error. So Overflow, instead of clip, I'm going to set it to y. Scroll. Okay. And next, overflow, hidden. Okay. But this is Overflow. X hidden. Sorry about that. All right. And inside this, now, I can add the global header.

4:06:35
So, im going to say global header component, which were going to create, of course, but just say global header, like this. And after that, were going to have another div where you can render out all the children elements, right, so were going to pass in the class name, like this, set this to margin, top of four. And inside this, you can render out all the children elements in here.

4:06:55
Okay, now, this global header, of course, is a new component. So you want to go into your components folder in global and were going to say global dashe header. And inside this, create an index. TsX. Okay, and im going to return a component here. And im going to rename this component to global header. And this is a relatively simple component. First thing we need is the workspace. Okay, this is going to be of type, workspace.

4:07:20
So, lets imported from Prisma client. Okay. And now lets go back to our component. Also, I see an error here inside the sidebar. Okay, I think, I know why I think we need to provide some sort of. Okay, well, provide the props in just a second. But let me go back to our workpace layout. TSX, and lets import our global header. Okay. So I'm going to go into the sidebar index, TSX.

4:07:45
And we have two props that we need to provide. The first one is the color. Just provide whatever you want. And its actually optional. But this for the state, im just going to say false for now. Okay, and I already have a work in progress flag. So I can come back to this when I need to. So, lets go back to our other component layout, tsx.

4:08:04
And inside our global header, we need to also provide the workspace ID. Okay, now, before we do that, actually, we already have it right here, right? So lets just go ahead and provide the workspace ID. Okay, lets get workspace equal workpace, thats coming from here. So, we have something in here called has access, right? So we can get it from this, actually. So it say, has access, do works. What does it have?

4:08:33
Okay, data and workspace. Okay, awesome. So, lets go back into global header. So, let me just quickly explain what were doing in here, right, so, the first thing is, were going to need access to the path name that the user is on. And the reason is because we want to dynamically create this global header component.

4:08:52
If we had to have this component and have it passed in with props, and then render it out in every page, its going to be very redundant. So, with the power of the use path name, hook, we can essentially get access to the path name itself, which would be this dashboard. SL, this ID. And then we can figure out which path theyre trying to access. Whe.

4:09:13
E, its, the dynamic path, or if theyre trying to access a specific path, like the notifications page, settings page, or even a folder inside this route. And based on that, we can decide whether we want to return a specific type of header, like the, my library, because we dont have any path name in here, or we can render out the title itself. That means the path name itself. Okay, thats pretty much it.

4:09:40
So, lets go ahead and build that out. So, first thing, you guys know path, name equal. Use path name, invoke it, and change this to a use client component. Okay, next, we need to split this and were going to split it with a, at a specific string. So, the string is going to be dashboard slash, and were going to put the workspace, do ID in here. Okay, so were splitting it at this exact ID.

4:10:04
So, what I mean, this exact URL. So whats going to happen is if we are on the my library page, were not going to get anything in here, right, cuz its the root path. So, first, lets extract the first value we get from here. And down here, we can do that logic based on the root path. Well, render out my library. Okay. So, first thing is, were going to create an article tag.

4:10:26
And inside the article tag, were going to give it the following class names. Flex, flex D column. Okay, I made errors here, flex, flex, D column, and we need gap D2. And inside this, were going to create a span tag, spaan, and were going to give it text, a specific color, which is 707070. And after that, text excess.

4:10:50
Now, inside the span, we can render out the workspace, do type, and we can render whether its a public or their own workspace, right? So, well, say type, and we will set this to two upper to local uppercase. All right. And lets invoke that. So now you can see it says personal. All right. Awesome. Next were going to hit enter here, create an H1 tag.

4:11:15
And inside this H1 tag, were going to change the text to for XL. And were going to render out that stuff that we just created up here. So, if were going to say, if path name exists, so if path name exists, and the path name is not equal to, so if this is basically were first checking, if it includes, if it includes a folder, right, and were getting the reverse of that.

4:11:39
Okay, thats the way to look at this. So, path name do includes folder, but the opposite of that, which means it does not include the folder. If thats true, well, do something in here. If not, well, do something else. So, what are we going to do? If this is true? Well, were going to say path name dot. Why is this hiding everything?

4:11:57
Okay, character at were going to invoke this and get the first character zero, and then do two uppercase And lets invoke this as well. And were going to essentially return it with a capital letter, right? Because the path name is A is a small letter. So, were going to say path, name, slice, invoke it. Get the first one. So from the first one and were going to essentially change this to lowercase. All right.

4:12:24
So lets see what that looks like, of course, were not going to be able to see it right now. And the reason is because we are on the root path, right, theres nothing in there, correct. So, since theres nothing inside the path name, and its empty, if you render something out here, its going to show instead. So now we can say my library, because clearly the user is on the my library page.

4:12:46
And another thing I want to do is I'm going to add font, bold to this. So it looks better. Also, just looks a little funny, right? Okay, so add font bold up here. All right, great job. Okay, so our global layouts is pretty much done. Now, we can move on to creating the folders, the videos, and all this kind of fun stuff. Okay. So go back to your page.

4:13:09
TSX, which is under this, and lets see what we need to render in here. All right, guys, so im not talking about this page, by the way, dont get confused. The workspace ID page, TSX. Okay, because in here were going to do something slightly different. So since we already have the check inside the layout were good to go, we dont have to do that in here.

4:13:29
But inside this page, were going to have the triggers or the TBL list along with the triggers. So these are TABL lists right here. Okay, so you can create these TABL lists. And essentially, you can render whatever component you want in here, right? So, for now, we dont really need this. I just want it to look nice. And pretty.

4:13:47
So heres, what im going to do first thing is remove this, or actually lets get the PAMs. So, im going to say PAMs like this. And this is going to give us access to workspace ID, which is a string. Im also going to destructure it from here. Okay. And now that I have this, I can return a div. Okay, were already returning a div in here. So, lets remove this.

4:14:10
And now, we want to return the tabs component from components UI. All right, please do not import this from Radic UI, and then come to the Discord and say, im confused. Okay, see what you're importing and accordingly ask questions, okay, were always here to help you. But I want you to also think, right Dont, just use support because it exists, but use support because you're absolutely lost, and you have no idea whats going on.

4:14:32
Okay, do some research first. So first thing is a default value. So going to say default value, this is equal to videos. And the class name in here is going to be margin, top of six. Okay. Now, inside this, we need the, we first need the tabs list, right? Oh, actually, lets create a container for this. So were going to say class name of flex width of full. Always.

4:15:00
Make this ERor with flex width of full, justify, center or justify between, and items. Center. Okay. And inside this, we can create our tabs list. So tabs list component. See, I also made this ERor here. So, tabs list like this. And this is going to have the following class name. So were going to call this, were going to add Bg, transparent gap of two padding, left of zero. Okay. And now we need the tabs trigger.

4:15:32
So create the tabs trigger component. And the first one is going to be videos like this. The second tabs trigger is going to be archive. Okay. Now, lets go ahead and give class names for this as well. So for the first trigger for the videos trigger, I'm going to set the following class names. All right. So, please type this out. And after this, one more prop on this, which is called value, which is super important.

4:15:57
Okay. So, value is equal to videos. All right, because the default value is videos. So, this is going to be checked by default. And next down here were going to have another value prop for this. And this value is archive. Okay, so now you can pretty much swap between them. But we need to give it the same styling, right? So lets go ahead and pretty much copy this and paste it down here as well.

4:16:21
So, class name, just like this. All right. Awesome. All right. Now, I dont have a way to create a workspace from here. So, I can create a button here, because I already have create folder, right? So after this tabs list, I'm going to create a div and im going to say flex gap, x of three. Okay. And inside this, im going to create first component, which is called create workspace. Okay, just like this.

4:16:48
And im going to copy this name and open up my folder structure, go into components, globals. And im going to create a folder in here called create DAS workspace, just like this. Okay. You can also make this a local component. I think that would make more sense. But for now, I think this is fine. All right. Doesnt, doesnt really make a big difference. So, create an index.

4:17:11
TSX, I'm going to return a component here and rename it. All right. You guys know the, the drill. All right. Now, the first thing is, were going to need to use our hook that we created called use query data. Right? So lets go ahead and grab that. And also, the reason why we need this in here, is we need to grab the users subscription, their workspace, and their members, right?

4:17:35
And if you see up here, we have one of the actions that can do that inside the workspace folder right here, right? Get workspace. So we can use this and essentially get that data from here. Okay. So, first thing were going to do is, were going to say, const data equal to use query data. Okay, lets invoke that. And the first one, okay, what is this? Okay. The first parameter is going to be an array.

4:17:59
The second one is going to be the server action. So, get workspaces I'm going to pass it in here. And now, the key for this is going to be user workspaces Okay. And if im not wrong, I think we already made this call somewhere in the file. Yep, we did. So it will probably be cached. Okay, if not, then I think that should be fine. But, lets see how it goes.

4:18:22
And then if we need to do some sort of wiring up for that, well, well, figure it out. Okay. But first thing now is, now that we have the data, we need to extract the plan, right? We need to get the plan stuff. So, what were going to do is were going to type, cast its, not typ cast actually lets typ cast. So, well, say data were going to rename it to plan.

4:18:42
Were going to set it to data as status, and this is going to be a number. And then we also need. Whats going on here? Data is unknown. Did I make some sort of error here? All right. So first thing is, I made a huge mistake. See, this is, I hate typing, man. I make so many errors, change this to use query data. And let me show you a cool way to do this.

4:19:04
You can do command shift F, if you are on Mac, and you can hit this little drop down here, and you can replace this name with, with, use query data across the entire project. Okay. And if you click on this, its going to replace all occurrences of that specific thing. Okay. And now, lets see what error we see here, I can remove this and use query data can now be imported with the right spelling.

4:19:33
All right. So, now, U. The other thing I was doing is just Hyp casting, and also extracting some data from here. So, let me go ahead and do that. So, im going to say, const data plan equal to data, as were going to create an object here. All right, and in here were going to set the status to be number, and then we need the data itself.

4:19:54
And the data is going to have subscription, okay, subscription. And this subscription is going to have our plan, which is either going to be pro plan, or its going to be the free plan, right? And finally, down here, we can set, if they dont, have anything, its just going to be null, right? Okay, cool.

4:20:13
Now, that we have this data, we can say, if the plan subscription is free, then were not going to return anything because they cannot create a workspace, right? But if they are on a pro plan, then were going to return something down here.

4:20:27
Okay, well, what are we going to return Were going to remove this and were going to return a modal component very similar to what we did previously, and were going to have a title and a description. So, im going to say title, description, which is create a workspace, this action. Oh, well, I think this comes from, from Chattian. So, let me remove this. ILL say, okay, so, I just put some description in here as well.

4:20:50
And inside this, we have to pass in one more prop, which is the trigger, right? And the trigger, of course, is going to be a button element. Now, I see some errors here. So, global sidebar. TSX is panicking. Use query data. Import, this, whats going on? Lets, lets find out. All right. So lets go down here, were going to go in here and see something here. Whats the matter?

4:21:16
Use Query data lets go into the file itself, use search, use query data, query key, use query data. Somethings going on here. Did I mess up something? Okay, its because of the file, I believe, right. So change the file also to use query data, and lets see whats going on. Now, so Usequery data. TSX. Export this here. Usequery data. I have no clue what was the difference between this and this. Its just Typescript guys.

4:21:45
All right. Oh, man. Typescript is so annoying. Okay, so at hooks, use query data. So im going to say at hooks. Okay, slash whats in here? Okay, cuz its a TSX file. Maybe thats the reason lets change this to TSX, and see if its going to give us any data here. So, im going to scroll down. Import this hook again. All right. Now, I think its working.

4:22:11
Okay, now, now its working, okay, it was a file name. Sorry about that. And now we also have some more errors here. What is this error? Okay, create workspace, lets, of course, go ahead and import this. Before we start building everything. And I have to build my password. Cool. Okay. Now, I see more errors here. Whats the error? No, such file or directory lets refresh. Okay. Up here, right. So replace this and import it again.

4:22:38
Use. Query data lets refresh. Okay, now, I see some more errors, man, that change kind of messed me up. All right, guys. Give me a second. Let me fix this. Okay, was the most annoying bug ever took me about an hour to solve this. Or even more. Im not even sure, but it, it was very simple and ILL, tell you what I did and what the solution was.

4:23:00
But first thing is, I saw that error, that said that the used query hook was not a function, right? And clearly, inside a hook, inside our used query data, hook, this, this is a function, you can hover over it, and itll show you, right? It is a function. So, the error message that NEXTJS was giving me was not, you know, clear enough for me to identify the issue.

4:23:24
So I thought maybe its something to do with the file, right? So I changed it to do Typescript, even then it kept showing. TSX, so everything was cached. So, I went up, deleted, next folder, restarted everything. And then I also deleted the node modules, just to make sure I didnt mess the node modules folder. And then I reinstalled node modules. And then I did bun and bun, run dev.

4:23:45
Everything spun up again, and I still saw that issue. Okay, now, yes, I do know that if you're using a hook inside a component, you need to change the file to use client, right? Not this one, but any other component. And yeah, well, if I dont, do it, it should show another error message, which is if you're using client components, well, you need to change this to use client, right?

4:24:10
Using a hook or a client component in here. You need to change this to use clients, but it wasnt, giving me that error message. It was giving something else. Super weird. Okay. So, after hours, all I did was put use client on the create workspace, and that, of course, fixed the bug. Okay, so, if you saw that error, I'm, sorry.

4:24:29
And if you were trying to debug, im, sorry about that as well, the answer is just put use client up top. Now, lets scroll down here where we have our modal component. And we need to still complete this, right? So inside the trigger. First thing is im going to going to add some class names, some styling to this. I'm going to say class name. And im going to add the following styles.

4:24:51
And let me just put something in here so I can see something render. Okay, well, nothing is going to render because it doesnt, you know, this doesnt satisfy, right? Its not a free, I mean, its a free account. And as a result were not returning this model. So, you could just return an upgrade button here if youd like.

4:25:08
And of course, we have already done, you know, the, I mean, I'm, I'm going to show you how to do it, but right now, I just put the loader component in here. But eventually, when were wiring up everything, ILL show you how you can do it. And you can reuse the same logic in every area in your application. Okay, so for now, down here, were going to import the folder, plus icon.

4:25:29
Okay, and you want to get the duo te icon made a spelling error here anyways. And im also going to just remove this if condition for now, so remove if here and save. Okay, nice. You can see that right there. So, were going to show this and say, create a workspace. And down in here, we want to have a form element, where the user can give the workspace folder, sorry, the workspace name, okay.

4:25:58
To create that workspace. So, im going to create a component in here called workspace, form, just like this. I'm going to copy it. And I'm going to go into my folder structure under global. And im going to create a new component in here called workspace, DAS form. Actually, maybe we can create a forms folder. Let me take a look. All right, that makes more sense. So let me shrink the global folder.

4:26:21
And im going to create a forms folder in here. And im going to move my, this is a create. Okay, this is fine. Let me grab the workspace form and move this somewhere. Up. Top here. Inside this forms component. Okay, nice. And now, inside this, I can essentially return that. Oh, somethings whats going on here? Okay, forms workspace, form. Inside that an index. TSX.

4:26:46
And im going to return a new component like this, and also go back and import the workspace form component. Okay. Now, inside this component, like I said, its going to be inside that modal, right? So, when they click this, a model is going to show up, we want that form to be in here. So, for that form, all were going to do in here is first, were going to get a hook called use, create workspace.

4:27:09
Okay, so im going to copy this. And now im going to scroll down into my hooks, folder. And im going to create the use, create workspace, hook. Typescript. And lets just quickly say, export const use, create workspace is equal to an arrow function. And inside this were going to need use mutation data. So, first thing is, were going to say const were going to destructure, some values we need mutate, and is pending, right?

4:27:36
So, were going to get use mutation. Data were going to invoke this. And first one is the key, right? So, the key right here is going to be create DAS workspace. And after that, were going to need another arrow function. And this arrow function is going to give us data, which were going to destructure and were going to get name, which is going to be a string.

4:27:57
And this is going to return another server action called create workspace. Okay, work, create workspace, like this. And this will of course, need data dotame inside it. So, whatever the user wanted, right? And, and theres one more thing, we need to pass in here. So, let me go ahead and pass that in as well. So, the first value is the mutation key. Second one is mutation function, and then some other stuff as well, right?

4:28:25
Like another key, query key that we can pass in. So, the query key were going to pass in here. I'm going to put a comma and im going to say, user workspaces now lets go ahead and create this server action. So, scroll up, top, inside your actions folder, you're going to scroll to the bottom, and you're going to say, export const create workspace, which is going to be an arrow function.

4:28:47
Okay, and this is going to need the name, which is a string. And inside this first, get a tr catch block, and were going to say const user equal a wait, current user. If theres no user, you can return status of 404. Okay. And now, if there is then were going to say authorized, authorized equal await client user find many. Okay, or sorry, guys find unique. Okay.

4:29:21
And this needs to change to an async function, where the clerk ID is the user ID, okay. And then were going to select the following info. We need the subscription data and were going to select specifically the plan information. Okay, and now, lets scroll down here.

4:29:40
If the authorized, the user subscription plan itself is equal to pro plan, then were going to do something in here, were going to say, const workspace equal await client, user update, okay, where clerk ID is equal to user ID, and the data that were going to create here is that new workspace, right? So were going to say workspace. Create. Okay. The name and the type here is going to be public. All right.

4:30:15
So, essentially, if theyre authorized, and they have the pro plan, then were going to create their workspace, okay, straightforward. And then if everything was successful, were going to get the workspace object, right, then were going to return a status of 2011. Okay, and then were going to return the data, and you can return the workspace itself, if youd, like, okay, or whats the arrow here, workspace. So this has to be in inside this.

4:30:42
So if workspace exists, then you can return this. And for data, just for now, im, just going to say, workspace created, you can return the same thing as well. And I think thats probably better here. But for now, I dont think I need this data, right.

4:30:55
And then next, if everything was successful, if nothing worked, then were going to say 401 for the status, right, and the data is going to be set to something else in here. And the data is going to be, you are not authorized to create a workspace.

4:31:14
Okay, and then down here were going to return status 400. Okay, this is if some error act took place, apart from all of these errors, and lets go back in here. And im going to import create workpace in here. And now, I can proceed. Okay, so this hook is going to essentially use the used mutation data, its going to get the query keys, this is the query key, and also the mutation key.

4:31:40
And next down here. So, essentially, what this is doing, guys is we are creating the data and were also invalidating, revalidating the data as well, and were appending the new workspace information to this, okay, to this user workspaces, query key. Thats pretty much whats happening here. Okay, so next const equal to use ZOD forms. This is another hook that we need. So, im going to go ahead and create this.

4:32:06
And the reason why we need this is, if you remember, in one of the previous projects, we had to do a bunch of stuff for the used ZOD form, the used form HOOK, right? So, this time, were reusing all that logic and creating a hook out of it. So, we dont, have to do it a 100 times. We just have to do it once.

4:32:25
Okay, so before this lets just go ahead and immediately create this form. HOOK. So its called use ZOD form. Okay. And Typescript, of course. And here I'm going to say export const or well, say const use ZOD form. This is fine as well. And this is going to be an arrow function. And down here, I'm going to export default, the use ZOD form. Okay, nice.

4:32:54
So inside this, first thing I'm going to do is I need a bunch of values, bunch of props. So, first thing I need is schema, and the schema is going to be ZOD schema. All right. Why is it not importing Something is going on here. Just give me one second. Okay, so just scroll up top. And I have to manually install Z and ZOD schema. Okay.

4:33:15
So, the schema here is going to be of type Zod, schema mutation is going to be of type, use mutation function. Okay, go ahead and import that one as well. And then the default values, which are optional, are going to be of type any. Okay, for now, you can also use generics if you want right here. But I'm just going to say any for this.

4:33:39
Okay, next inside this were going to say const, and this is equal to use form. Okay, this is a hook that is needed to essentially register the element, the input field, to watch it to listen to value changes to get handle, submits, error states, all this kind of fun stuff. Okay. So, first thing were going to need here is, were going to use this generic angular brackets, and were going to say Z infer.

4:34:05
And for that, were going to pass in the type of the schema that was passed in. Okay, then next thing is in here, we need to pass in our resolver. And the default values, right? So, this is going to be ZOD resolver, which, for some reason is just not importing. So going to need to do it on my own. So, HOOK forms, sl resolvers, slod. Okay, so, now I can import this.

4:34:28
And I can invoke it and pass in my schema. And the next thing I need is the default values. And for default values, I'm going to pass everything thats inside the default values. All right, nice, great job, guys. Now, I need to also return this, right? Dont forget about this. So const on form. Oops. Sorry, first, let me destructure everything. So, we need register were going to need. Watch, maybe reset, and then handle submit, right?

4:34:56
Okay. And then I think we also need to get errors. And I think errors is inside form state, form, state, and inside that error. Okay, errors. Nice. So now we have all the values that we might potentially need. You can get more out of this, but this is enough for now. So const on form, submit equal to handle submits. This is going to take in an async arrow function. Okay, so let me provide this. Nice.

4:35:20
And this has to return mutation were going to invoke with all the values passed into it. Okay. Now, where do we get these values from? These values, come from the handle submit function. Okay, so let me just complete this one more time. So values. And in here, you're going to say values, just like this. Okay. Nice. All right. So, now that we have this done, we can return all of this stuff. So return.

4:35:44
And we need to return our register. Watch, reset. What else do we need? We need the on form. Submit function were going to need not. Watch. And reset. We already did. That lets get errors as well. All right, nice. Now we are returning everything right here. Okay, and this is also being exported. Nice. So now I can go ahead and import the use ZOD, form hook. The first parameter here is the schema, right Right?

4:36:12
We have the ZOD schema, then the mutation itself, and any default values, if needed. So, lets go ahead and create a schema for our workspace. So, scroll down to types. And in here, you're going to find, let me see, okay, we have an index file. And I'm just going to put it in here for now, or actually H, I think a better folder structure would be to do it inside the form itself, right?

4:36:35
So were going to create a schema typescript file, inside our workspace form, or inside any expected component, right, which it has to be inside the form, of course. And here were going to say, export, const workspace, schema is equal to Z doob and Z is not imported. So, let me see if its going to give it to me. Okay, Z dooB invoke that.

4:36:56
And in the object, you're going to pass in Z do name, which is a string. So this is the syntax. Okay, so string, and the minimum characters is going to be one. And if thats, if thats not satisfied, the error message we want to show is workspace name cannot be empty. Okay. Awesome. I wish they actually had a required field. They just made, I dont know why they made this update. Super weird.

4:37:19
Okay, lets go back. And inside this, now I can import, sorry, IVE already imported that, but now I can pass in my schema. Okay. So workspace, schema, like this. And next is the mutate function, which were going to get from this. Use mutation data. So first, go up here, and you're going to grab mutate, and is pending. Okay. And if you dont know, we already created this, right?

4:37:41
I hope you remember it essentially does the whole mutation part under the hood, uses an on success, and uses any of the A call back function that we provided. And itll invoke that for us, if you provide. Okay, but of course, I dont think were going to provide it here. But im just showing you what this does. So, you remember, so, lets go back and provide the mutate in here. Nice.

4:38:01
And now, finally, we have to return something, right? So, this hook is going to return the error state, of course, the on form, submit, and the register state, okay, everything else will, will happen on the form itself. So, lets go ahead and were, sorry, were not returning here, were destructuring it from this, because we have to also return the is pending state from here. Okay, so im going to capture all of this.

4:38:25
Return it here, and were also going to return the is pending. Okay, nice. Now lets go back to our form component, which is up here, index tsx. And now we can import and use this hook. So const, and this is equal to the use, create workspace, hook. And now we can destructure all the values that we need in here directly. And now we can return a form component. So, return a form component.

4:38:54
We dont need action in here anymore. Were just going to set the onsubmit function in here to be the on form submit, which we just destructured. And for class name, flex, flex, D, column and gap of y of three. And lets also see what were doing. Okay, so in here, of course, we cant see anything. If you put something in here, you probably will be able to see it, right? Nice.

4:39:21
The first thing we need is this magical form generator component that we created, that makes it super, super easy to wire up form elements. Okay. Or else its a huge process, because you need to create labels, the input fields, error, messages, and kind of wire up everything individually for every single page. So, thats why we created this global component here called FormG generator. Okay. Index. TsX, of course. And I'm going to return a component.

4:39:52
Change this to form generator as well. Okay. Now, there are different type of form elements, right? All you would have to do is come in and update all of these types when you want to expand on this form component. Okay, so for now, we only have text, email, password, and number. Now, you can have file. Upload. And we have done so much in the past. We dont need it right now.

4:40:14
Okay, so thats why I only need these types. And next is the input type itself. So, we have select input and text area. Okay, now, this type gets passed in directly into the input field. So, this is technically should be like this, so, it makes more sense, or actually, this is fine as well. But yeah, you get the point, right? The input types is all you would have to expand on, guys, sorry, not this one.

4:40:36
This goes into the input field, telling it whether its a text email or password field. Okay. But input type is all you would have to come in here, and pretty much put your own custom input type if you have anything. Okay, next. Are the options for this form element, which is the value, the label, and any ID field. So, im going to bring that in. And this is optional.

4:40:57
And the reason why we need options here is not options for the input field, but its options for a select item. Okay. Keep that in mind. So, for each option, we have all of these props. Okay. But now, for the input field, you know, itself, we also need label. Then, of course, we need the placeholder. Then next, we need to register the element, right? So the register is coming from use form hook.

4:41:23
So its of type, use form, register. All right. So capture this as well. And then we need name, which is going to be string errors as well, which comes from use form hook. So im going to bring that in, were going to say field errors. And which one is this, this one or, okay? Theres error. Okay, errors. Okay, not error. And this one is going to take in the field values.

4:41:46
Okay, field, not value, but values. Okay, and next is, were going to have something here called lines. And this is, if were using a text area, then were going to need to pass in how many lines it can have. Like, I mean, basically the rows, correct. So thats, what lines means right here. Okay, so, this is, of course going to be a number. Nice.

4:42:05
Now, we want to go down here and were going to destructure all of these values. Cool. Now, remove this, because we are going to use a switch case. Okay, a switch statement, that looks at the input type. And for the case, were going to check if it is of type input. And if it is then were going to do the following right here. So, the first thing were going to return is a label.

4:42:29
With the input and all of the elements it needs for the input version, input type. Okay. This one, the, where is that input type? So, I'm going to return, return a label. What seems to be the problem here. Okay, I know what the problem is. So, let me just undo this. So we have to return something. Okay. So return first, were going to have label, input, error, message. Thats it. Very simple. Okay.

4:42:56
So I'm going to import the label component. Were going to have the following class name. So, please pause and type this. Okay. Were going to have the HTML 4, which is going to have input dash and the label itself. That way we, we can combine these two. Right? And if label exists, were going to return the label. Then we need, of course, the input component. So bring that in as well. This is the ID.

4:43:19
And for type, were going to have the type the user wanted. Okay. Its optional, of course, but were going to pass that in placeholder class. And finally, the react hook forms related stuff. So register. All right. And, of course, you have to pass in the name as well. Thats how its going to keep track. Okay. Now, next one is the error message. Very simple stuff. So, I'm going to import this error message component.

4:43:41
Just give me one second. And this comes from react. HOOK forms, I believe. HOOK forms, error message. So, something seems to be off. Let me fix this real quick. Guys. Give me just a second. Looks like you have to install the HOOK forms Error, me message separately. Okay, I thought it would install it when we, when we installed all components in Chaten, but thats fine. So, all you have to do is open up your terminal.

4:44:04
And you want to say, bun add and paste this at HOOK. Form. Slair message, or if you are on Windows, please use npm you're going to say npMI and you're going to add this. All right. And once that is done, it should install that library. Now, you have to manually put this here. And that will install the component itself. Okay, so now, as you can see, I can see that component in here.

4:44:25
So, you're going to say, error message, pass in the errors, pass in the name. And for the render prop, you're going to show what it should render when an, when a error message occurs. Okay, so this will give us access to the message itself, which comes from our schema file, and it just happens under the hood. Okay, dont, dont worry about it. Its just syntax to use react, hook forms.

4:44:44
And if there is a message, well, show the message. If not, well, show required. Okay, nice. Now, im not going to go crazy S. And type this for each and every single, you know, input type, but im going to explain over it. Please open up the Github, or pause the screen and type. Thats the best way for you to learn. Okay, so im going to paste this here. This is for type of select.

4:45:06
And all were going to do in here is were going to return a label component. Same exact thing. Okay, copy this, label, paste the label down below here. If the label exists, well, return a label. Next, we need the select component. So create a select component. And for that, pass in the ID as well. Same thing as the HTML 4. And the class name is going to be like this. So with full Bg.

4:45:28
Transparent border, one pixel padding, three, and rounded, of large. Okay, pass in the register as well. So now this registers our select element. Next, if there are options, then were going to map over them and return option for it and pass in the value, key and a class name. And of course, the label for that option itself. Okay, and same thing, error message down here. Nothing else crazy.

4:45:51
Now, for the text area, which is the last one, we have to do the following. So, this were going to say text area. If the label exists, render the label out. Now, we need the text area component from our components library. So, components, folder. So, I'm going to import that. And then pass in the following class name, which is transparent board, theme, gray text, theme, gray as well. Okay.

4:46:14
And its the same thing as this HTML 4 placeholder register. And the rows, okay. I would suggest putting this above, but right now, its here. So actually lets just keep it like this. Okay. So rows, lines, and the register itself. And the same error message. Okay, now, knock yourself out, do as many as you want. This is all we need for now. If we need more, well, come back to this. Okay, so now this should work.

4:46:36
So, lets go back to our component and lets continue to render out the form generator component. Okay. So in here, which is our workspace, form component, I'm going to bring in the form generator. Okay. And this can be a closed component. And now, we need to pass in first the name. So im going to pass in name here. Then we need placeholder label, and the errors, the errors here.

4:47:01
And our label is going to be workspace name. And the placeholder is also going to be workspace name. Next, we need to pass in the input type, okay, which is input. And the type here is, if I click on this, its not going to show something, one prop, which is the register prop. Okay. So thats a very important prop that you need to pass in. So if you refresh, let me dismiss this.

4:47:24
Now, there you go. You can see the workpace name. Okay, looks nice. And you can also give it a better name here. So you can just say maybe name here, right Like this name, and then workspace, workspace name, thats fine. And next were going to need to have a button to, to submit this form. All right. So were going to create a button component like this.

4:47:45
And for class text, SMM, with a full margin, top of two, and were going to say type equal submit. Okay. And next, we need to also say, disabled is equal to, is pending. So when the API request is firing, then we want to disable the button, right? Thats why. And next, we need to have our magical loader component that we created as well. And this component is going to show a loading SP.

4:48:10
Spner spinner based on the is pending state. Okay, and here were just going to show create workspace. And if you click on this, just like that, its going to show right in here. And thats it. Thats pretty much it for the create workspace component Cu, the user, you know, is still under the free plan, right? I dont want to mess up all of my data, but its going to work. Okay, it will work.

4:48:32
You can just read the code and see, we have a server action here, the server action will fire. And thats, thats pretty much it, right? Its going to do all of the down here. If its a free tier me, if its a pro tier member only, then will it create the workspace for them, right? So lets go back. And now, yep, thats pretty much it.

4:48:50
So next thing, we need to wire this up with that with that pro member or free member tier, right? So lets go back to our component, which is our create workspace component. And im going to just kind of undo all the stuff here, free and pay tier, right. And now in here, I can render out that workspace form. So, so remove this and import workspace form.

4:49:13
So now you're not going to see it, because the user is on a free tier. Okay, nice. Everythings working. Great. Job Create the create folder button. Right? So, and if you see right here, we, this is the sidebar, actually want to go into the page. So, I'm going to go into this page, the workspace ID page, tsx. And inside this one, we can now create the create folder action right here.

4:49:38
Okay, so, were going to pass in a prop right away. This is the workspace ID. Okay, because we have to create the folder under this workspace ID, right? So were going to say props, or actually, we dont have to say that. We have to say PAMs, not props. PAM, workspace ID. And now were going to have to create this component. So, open up your folder structure.

4:49:55
Go down to globals, were going to say, create DAS folders. What am I typing, folders and index. TSX. And inside this component, I'm going to render out the create folder component. Okay, now quickly, go back and import. So we can also see what were building. All right. And its pretty much the exact same thing. The only difference, the only difference is the server action thats being performed, right? Okay.

4:50:23
Now, inside the create folders, I'm going to add a work in progress flag called add Create folders. The reason is because I first want to see some folders before I create them, right. So, lets go back here and lets create our folder section. And then we, we can get back to this, because we already know what this is going to look like, right?

4:50:43
I already showed you right here with the workspace, its pretty much the same thing. Were just going to have to first render out folders to see the UI, and make sure our layout looks great. And then we can move on to creating this little button here. Okay. And, the button literally doesnt do anything. And I would like to use Optimistic UI for this as well. ILL see if it works.

4:51:03
ILL see if I can figure out a way to do it in the, in this short span of time. And if it does great, ILL show you how to do that. Okay, so a really, really cool feature Anyway, so, right down here, first thing is create a section tag. And for this section tag, give it padding Y of nine. Okay.

4:51:18
And inside this were going to say tabs content and import this from our UI folder for. The values were going to say, if this is videos, then were going to render something in here, were going to essentially render the videos itself, right? Because archive were not really building that. I'm going to leave that up to you as a bonus.

4:51:39
Okay, but I want to show you how to do this section alone, right, so were going to create the video section in here. And inside this, we want to show the folders. Okay, so these folders are going to be another component, which are its a new component. So dont import the folders from the icon. Okay, so folders like this.

4:52:00
And I'm going to instantly pass in the workspace ID, because inside this were going to need to pull all the folders itself, right? So, I'm going to say, PAMS, workpace ID, like this. So then I can pull in all the folders for this component. Okay, so now open up your folder structure, scroll down to global, going to shrink all of this as well. And now, I'm going to create another folder in here called folders.

4:52:25
And inside that, I'm going to create the index. TsX. Okay. And in here, of course, you guys know the drill. Just return a component and change it to folders. First, we already have this workspace ID being passed in, so I'm going to capture that. Okay. Okay. And then I'm going to go back and import our folders component from the components folder, not from lucid. React. And now, that should no longer scream at me. Nice. Okay.

4:52:51
And now, the first thing I want to do in here is I'm going to use a hook here called use query data to get all the workspace folders, right? So, thats essentially our first step. So, first thing that I need to do in here is get folders. Okay. Then I want to also, maybe, you know, give a way to add this to some sort of a optimistic UI data, right?

4:53:17
So, if we have an optimistic variable, let me change this optimistic variable. I want to add the new data that was created to that, right? So, I want to pick it up from here as well. So, not just the response for thats coming from the API, but also this optimistic UI variable. Right? So, that might be another step to perform here. And then, ILL see what else we need, right?

4:53:38
But for now, lets go ahead and try to render out all of these folders. So, first thing is, were going to create a class name for the container. Flex. Flex. Das column and gap of four. And inside this, another div with Flex items center. What is this? Okay. Flex. Item, center, and justify, center. Justify between. And the next thing we need here is a div inside this.

4:54:06
And this div is going to have the following class name. So, flex items, center, and gap of four. Okay, so, just to show you what were building as well, inside our Figma file were building this beautiful design right here. Okay, so, first thing is, were building this and then, well, build this section.

4:54:23
So, inside this div right here, were going to have the folder, duo, tone icon, and were going to have an H2 tag with the following class name, not children. Class name is going to be text with a special class. So, I mean, special color code. So, were going to put B, D, BD. All right, this is the text color, and then the text is going to be Excel.

4:54:48
Okay, next here, im going to set this to folders. And all right, there you go. So, now we can see the folder title. And now, after this, we want to create another div with the class name, flex, items, center, and gap of two. Okay. And after this, in here, im going to have a paragraph tag with a class name, set to text. And im going to provide this same color that I had in here.

4:55:11
So, put the hashtag. So, please pause and type this. And after that, im going to say more. Okay, now, here, the user can essentially pretty much see everything. So you can also change to see, all but, or see, scroll, whatever you want, right? More. Sounds better to me and arrow, right? This one should be good to go here. And we have to also give it a color. Cuz, I dont, like this color. Its too bright.

4:55:38
So, I'm going to say color like this. And maybe we can also change. HM. Lets change this to C. All I like what we have in here, right? C. All this might be better. Okay, see, all, scroll for more. Whatever. Okay, next, after this div right down here. All right, the second div, not the first div were going to create our section. So, were going to say section like this.

4:56:01
And this section is going to have a class name, but this class name is going to need our CN function, because were going to pass in some dynamic variables. And, if data exist, then, well, return that data. Okay. And for that, were going to need to maybe pass in a class name to hide these elements, right? And the other thing is, if its not a 200 response, then we want to show no folders exist, right?

4:56:26
Stuff like that. So, thats, why were going to need this CN function right here. But, for now, just for the sake of this section, to show you what it looks like, im going to skip over this and just render out a folder inside this section. Okay, okay. So, lets go ahead and first create the class name in here.

4:56:44
So, im going to skip over the first part again, like im saying, skipping over that and just putting the default class names. Okay. So its going to be flex item, center gap, of four Overflow x auto, and with, of full. All right. Now, if we have no 200 response, then were going to show something else in here were going to, essentially, what is this Get all I think I pasted something by mistake. See all.

4:57:08
Okay, if we have a 200 response from this API call, then if we dont have a 200 response, then well, essentially render out. Justify center. Okay, I know its not going to make sense right now, but just hang on. Okay, for now, just build out this one single folder. So, im going to say folder in here, like this. And now we can go ahead and create that folder.

4:57:29
So, inside this, you want to create another file called folder. TSX. And im going to return a folder just like this. Now, this is going to need a couple props, right? The first one is name, the string, and were going to need optimistic, which is a boolean and count, okay, because there might be some videos inside each folder, right? So thats why we need this.

4:57:53
So lets go ahead and grab string ID name, which is string ID, string, optimistic, which is boolean count, which is a number. Okay, and finally, we need to also destructured from here. So im going to destructure everything nice. And now were going to need the path name. So lets go ahead and say const path name equal to use path name, and lets invoke that. And also change this to a use client component.

4:58:18
Now go back and also import our folder. Okay. So, now, oh, I imported it from the wrong folder, the wrong section. So, this one. All right, guys, in this, in this directory. And this is going to need all these props. Its going to scream at me, but for now, its fine. Okay. So, why do I need the used path name? Well, it doesnt really matter.

4:58:38
Okay, first of all, just want to give you a heads up, because you can change this to a link element. And when the user clicks on that link, it can take them to that folder. Thats fine as well. But I want to show you how to programmatically send a user to a different page. This is very important in development, especially in NextJS, because you're going to need to leverage the router API.

4:59:00
You want to use router push. Okay, so, I just want to show you a different way of doing the exact same thing. So, dont worry, if you, if you wondered, why didnt I use the link element. Thats the, literally the only reason. Okay. So, first thing is I need path name here. And then im also going to get router Okay. And then next we can go on to building the styles and stuff.

4:59:22
But for now, im going to say use routeR and im going to import this. So, first thing is, this div is going to have the following class name. So, you want to remove this. And you want to use the CN function invoke it. And inside this, for now, im going to pass in the default style. Okay. And the default styles are going to look as follows. All right. So were going to say flex hover. Bg.

4:59:45
Neutral, 800. So when I hover over this, it shows this really nice color. And the transition is going to help me create this fade effect. Okay, the subtle transition effect, and then cursor pointer, duration, 150. So it happens over 150 milliseconds. Item, center gap, two, justify between minimum width of 250 padding, y of six, padding, x of four rounded large and border, one pixel. Okay, so you can already see the folder structure form, right?

5:00:15
Thats pretty much it. So, now we have this in here. The next thing is when the user is trying to maybe update the state or create new elements, we also want to have the loader state, right? So before that, since I'm only trying to render out the element in here, im going to say work in progress, add loading states. Okay, just like this. Nice.

5:00:36
Now, in here, I'm going to create the loading component loader, a D. R. Why is it not showing the right loader component? Okay, it wanted to import it for me from, from lucid react. So im going to try to do it one more time. Okay, nice. This, this really hates me, man. Okay, loader. And for the state, I'm going to show false. Okay. Just to hardcode it for now.

5:01:03
And inside this, we need a div first. And the class name is flex D column gap of one pixel. Okay. And now inside this div, we can essentially show a paragraph tag. And this paragraph tag is going to have text neutral, D300. Or let me see 300. Like this. All right, nice. And in here, we can render out the name, so name, just like this. Okay, nice.

5:01:30
Now were not going to see anything in here, because we havent provided a name, so, im going to go back and I'm going to say name equal folder title, just as an example. Okay. Okay. And I see some unexpected end of JSON. What is this error? Okay, never mind, it was just magic. And thats it. Now, you can see the folder title is rendering, right?

5:01:49
And the next thing we need down here, after the paragraph inside the div itself, right Right here is a span tag. And the class name is going to be text, small, text neutral, ne neal. And this one can be 500. And this is going to be the count. Okay, so the number of videos, so count, actually, we did not create that yet, right? Oh, were passing it in right here. Sorry, guys. So count or zero.

5:02:18
So, if nothing is there, just show zero folders. And I'm going to say videos like this. Okay, zero videos, guys, sorry, not folders. Okay, nice. And thats it. Now we also need to render out the folder, duo tone. So im going to import that just like this. And now we should have the folder icon right here. Okay, nice. You can also reduce the height of this. Let me see if I have any padding.

5:02:42
What if I change this to four, huh? Maybe that looks slightly better, I guess, right? All right. That looks so much better. And thats it. So, now, if I go back, and if I duplicate folders in here, lets see what that looks like. Okay, its going to sort of AEn side to side, and you can also scroll past it. Okay, thats the whole point of this.

5:03:03
And of course, if you click on one, we want to have the functionality to send the user to that page, and also have it as the active state, right? So, theres so much stuff we need to do in here. And also, what if the user wants to update this title, right? Thats another feature we want to add, and I think I want to do that optimistically.

5:03:21
Ill, see, if I can, let me remove this and lets go into the folder itself. So, we can make those new changes. Okay, so now we have the router here. All right, guys. So just give me 2 minutes. I want to help you understand a small web development concept. Okay, I'm sure, I dont need to explain this, because you guys are SAS developers, right?

5:03:39
You're business owners, who are only here to make money, I know, but I want to also help the few other students who are learning web development as well. I know theres a bunch of you guys who are here trying to learn web development too. So, ILL, just show you. Okay, so in web development, when you have a DOM structure that looks like this, you're going to have elements that are of course nested within them, right?

5:04:01
A click, event fires from the nested, most event elements, that event will fire up the tree. Okay. Itll literally go up the tree from here, and then go to the outermost layer. This is called event bubbling. Okay, I dont want to get into too much detail, but I'm just saying this will happen if you have two click handlers that are nested.

5:04:23
Okay, so, to show you an example, right now, I have a click handler right here, called on double click, that is on the paragraph tag, and I have one that is on the entire element itself, the div. Okay, now, if I double click, the div, of course, its going to show running, right. But if I double click, the paragraph tag, its going to show, fired, and running as well.

5:04:44
So, that shows that the event is bubbling up the tree. Okay, now, what is the purpose of me explaining this? I want to create a feature. When I click on the element. This is basically right here. If I single click on this tab, I want the user to get navigated to that page.

5:05:04
And when the user double clicks on the text, not on this, because if you double click and have a click handler, then the first click handler is going to get registered, and its going to immediately redirect the user. So, we cant do that, right? So, single click on the tab, and doubleclick on the folder title. And when the user double clicks, I want to give the user the ability to directly change this right here itself.

5:05:27
Okay, and im going to see if we can wire up optimistic UI to show the change in real time. All right, thats why I wanted to explain this concept. So, were going to essentially stop propagation. And that way, we can pretty much prevent the event from getting, you know, from the event bubbling to take place. Okay, so, first thing were going to do in here is, were going to have an onclick handler.

5:05:52
So, the onclick handler here is for the single click to redirect the user, and then were going to have an on, double click handler, right in here. And you can also have a regular click element in here as well, because if the user tries to click the title, and it doesnt take them to, it doesnt route them to the page, theyre going to be quite confused, right?

5:06:10
So, you can have the single click element in here as well, if you want to. Okay, so lets first go ahead and finish this part, which is handle, folder, click. Okay, so I'm going to remove this. And im going to say handle folder, click. Okay, like this. And this is going to be a function. So, we can invoke it in here. Actually, sorry, we cant invoke it. We have to go up. Top, lets remove this.

5:06:35
And thats why we dont need to, I mean, if you're passing an error function, then you need to invoke. Okay, right now, I just want to keep it like this. We can say const handle, folder, on click. And we can pass in the callback function. And this is going to do the following. First thing is, were going to say, if there is, if there is data, right Or actually, well, just do this, right?

5:06:54
Now, this is going to make sense for you. So router push and were going to use back tick and were going to push the user to the following path, name slash folder slash. And this can actually, we can remove this now, right? So, path name, why is the bracket not closing? Okay, slash folder slash. And then we can put the ID. Okay, the ID that we get in from this folder as a prop.

5:07:21
So, let me also shrink this. So you guys can see more. All right, so thats the handle, folder, click. So when you click on the folder itself, its going to redirect them. So as you can see, it redirected me through a page. Of course, it doesnt exist, but thats the whole point of that. Okay, then were going to have another click handler here.

5:07:38
And this click handler is going to be called handle name, handle name, double click. Okay. And this is going to be an arrow function in here as well. And were going to get our event in here. Okay, now were going to need this event to stop propagation. So were going to say, E, stop propagation. And we also need some react types in here. Its going to scream at me.

5:08:03
So, im going to call this react Mouseevent. And in here, im going to pass an HTML paragraph element. Okay, so im going to stop propagation. And after this, now I can fire the rename functionality. So, first thing is, lets go ahead and create a state for it. So, im going to say, const on rename, and set on. Rename. Thats equal to use state were going to invoke this.

5:08:33
And this is, of course, going to be a Boolean. So, I'm just going to set it to false for now. And the next thing I need is some refs to keep track of, to basically change the value thats inside an input field that were going to get soon. Okay, that way, when the user is changing the name, this turns into an input field. Okay, just keep that in mind.

5:08:54
So, lets go ahead and create those refs So, first one is con const input ref, and this is equal to use ref. Okay, just like this, input, use ref. This is an HTML input element type, and, or its going to be null. Okay, the next ref we need is the card ref. Essentially, this ref. Okay, so im going to grab that ref as well. Its called folder card.

5:09:17
Ref, and its an HTML div element or set to null. Okay, then I'm going to create two helpers here. It doesnt really matter. You dont need to do this, and its called rename and renamed. Okay, and all they do is they set this value to true and false.

5:09:35
All right, the next thing I want to make sure is my on double click, has the handle name, double click function, the click handler, and the on click here has the handle, folder, click handler on it. Okay, nice. Next thing is, were going to need some optimistic stuff in here, right? And for this first, were going to need the use mutation data. So, I'm going to say const equal to use mutation data.

5:10:01
And im going to invoke that. And from this, of course, were always going to get our mutate and is pending. So, I'm going to get those right away. And now, the first thing is the keys that we need to pass in here. Mutation, keys, and the mutation keys for this one is going to be called rename folders. Okay. And the second one is the callback function that is going to help us make this change here.

5:10:25
So, I'm going to pass in a callback function. And next, we need the, lets see what we have in here. Okay, we have the query key, and the query key here is going to be called workspace folders. Okay, so, let me put this in a string. And finally, we have one more, which is a callback function. I believe on success, right? So, when this API request is successful, what do you want to do?

5:10:51
Well, we want to essentially change this rename function, this rename value, to false. Thats what we want, right? Because when the user is editing it, we want to show the input field. And well, do that, when renamed, is when this on rename is equal to true, and when its false were going to remove it. So, thats why we need to pass in that callback function. So, on success, it will be fired in here.

5:11:14
Okay, so renamed, not rename. All right. And this needs a comma here. Okay, awesome. Now, what is this callback function? It looks like theres some error here. Okay, it has to be a mutation function, right? So, first thing we need to do is, were going to get the data from here, right? And this folder is going to need the name, which is the string. So, lets go ahead and destructure these values.

5:11:43
And the next thing here is we need to return a server action. Okay, so that server action is called rename folders. And of course, for now, we can just invoke it. And I'm, just going to copy this name of the folder. And now, I can go into my workspace file right here under actions. And im going to say, export, pst. Rename folders is equal to async function. Okay, because its a server action.

5:12:12
And this is going to need first the folder ID, which is a string. And we also need the name that the user was trying to change it to. Right. So, first, again, you guys know the drill. Get a tr catch block. The folder is equal to await client folder update. Okay, and for this, what are we going to update? Well, we want to update for this specific folder ID.

5:12:37
So, where the ID is, like the folder ID that the user passed in here, and the data that we want to update is the name. Okay, hope this makes sense. And next, if the response was successful, then were going to return an object here with status set to 200. And we also need data and were going to set data to folder, renamed.

5:13:01
Okay, but if everything else failed, something happened, wrong, were going to return a 400 response and say, folder does not exist. Okay, and now down here were going to return a 400 saying or 500, saying something went wrong. Okay, so, oops, some. Oh, this should have an E, I think, right? Not really sure. But oops, probably. So, something went wrong. All right. Lets go back and quickly grab the server action. All right.

5:13:33
And now we need to pass in those values. So, the folder ID is essenti going to be what the user is working on, right? So, let me search for this, right here, this ID. So, go ahead and pass in the ID. And the next thing we need is the name, right? So, let me remove this. And for name, were going to say name like this.

5:13:56
And okay, looks like our query key is also passed in the success handler. All right, nice. Now, we need a handler to invoke this mutate, right? What is that handler? Well, that handler, its, its just the update folder name. And thats going to happen when the user clicks on the, on blur for an input field. Okay, if you dont know what on blur is, then that thats fine.

5:14:20
Ill, ill, pretty much explain it to you while were developing, but were going to say, update, const, update folder, name equal to an arrow function. And this arrow function is going to give us access to the event. So, I'm just going to call this event like this. And in here first, were going to make sure that we have values that are stored inside the input ref, and this folder ref.

5:14:46
All right, because if nothing is in here, that means those values arent appended, correct. And the next thing is, we want to make sure that the input refs current value does not contain the event target. Okay, because when were trying to make the change, we want to make sure that we dont have those elements itself, right? Because if the input field is still existing on the page, then that doesnt really make any sense, right?

5:15:14
Thats why. So in here were going to say, if the input ref current, if theres something that we stored initially in here, right? If that exists, and folder card, ref current. If these two exist, then in here were going to check for the opposite, right? Remember, I just mentioned, so were going to say input, ref. Current, do contains, and we dont want it to contain the eventtarget, as the event, sorry, eventtarget.

5:15:44
Okay, not as node were just typ casting it as a node, right? And this event is E down here. And if, or sorry, or null. Okay, so essentially, we need to also typ cast this. So im going to say as node, and essentially were checking if the current contains this target. And if it, or if it is null, and were trying to get the opposite of this. Okay.

5:16:06
And then the next one is, and pretty much the same thing, but for the folder current ref. Okay, and in here, I'm going to change this to folder card. Ref. Like this. Let me put this on two different lines. If itll, allow me to. Okay, nice. And what are we going to do in here? Well, were going to invoke mutate and pass, pass in the optimistic UI update for the name.

5:16:30
Okay, so down here first, were going to make sure the input ref current value exist, okay, because its input field, right? And if there is a value, then were going to invoke mutate like this. And in here were going to pass in the object with the name property, set to the input ref value. So, input ref current value. Okay, value like this. Or if nothing exists, then, well, invoke renamed. Okay, just like this. Nice.

5:17:05
All right. Looks great. And of course, as you know, when were mutating it right here, this will also invoke the renamed, once it is done by default. So, we dont have to invoke it here. You can, if you want, but we only want that to happen once everythings successful, right? So you can provide that directly in here itself. Thats the, thats why we needed this on success handler. Okay.

5:17:27
All right, now, going back down here first, were going to provide the ref, which is a folder, card, ref. And we also need the input card ref. Right? The input ref. So, lets go ahead and build that out. So above this paragraph, I'm going to say, on renamed, or on renamed it, actually, create that variable up here on rename.

5:17:47
Okay, so, this means if we are actively trying to change the name, if this is true, then we want to do something in here, or we want to do something else in here. Okay. So, what do we do? If this is true? Well, if this is true, were going to be returning an input component. Okay, just like this. And again, guys, you can do error checking if you want.

5:18:07
You can make this modal, anything you want. But I like it this way, cuz, I want to instantly give the user the ability to edit, right? So were going to add the following in here. So, first placeholder, and the placeholder is going to be the name itself. So, whatever they have, right here, right, this is going to show up in there.

5:18:25
And then after that, we want to pass in a class name, and the class name is going to be border Dnone underline. And we want textbase with a full outline, none text of neutral, of 300 Bg. Transparent and padding of zero. Okay, so. P 0. Nice. And then we have to provide the ref itself. So, ref equal to input ref. All right, nice.

5:18:56
Now, this paragraph were just going to remove it and paste it as the else block. Okay, so lets try and see what happens. Okay, so it looked like I clicked on it, and it went to a different page. So, let, let me try double clicking. All right. So, I think the reason is, because on the paragraph, we also need to have an onclick handler thats going to do the following, right?

5:19:18
We need to get the event here. And we need to stop propagation here as well. Or else the single click is going to go right back up. Right? So, let me try to see, okay, it looks like it is still sending the user back. Let me test it out. Okay, now, it looks good. All right, so, you see, were editing, but something seems to be off. Let me take a look as to whats going on.

5:19:43
So lets go into console, lets get the errors, and im also going to clear everything in here. Okay. All right. So, okay, there we go. So, we need to set the rename to true, right? So, handle name, double click. Well, after stop propagation, what do you want to do? We want to set rename right here. And invoke this. Okay, so, now, when we click this, there you go. Now, its pretty much editable.

5:20:10
Oops, I went to a different page. So, if you click, let me go back one more step. Okay, so, if I double click this, I can essentially change it, but it requires me to click once more, which is really weird. Let me see if there are some autofocus options that I can add on this element. So, auto or focus autof. Focus, lets see what this does lets refresh. Okay, nice.

5:20:36
So now I can change it to testing, click out, but its not going to save, right? The reason is because I dont have my on blur handler set up. So were going to go in here and were going to invoke on Blur. Were going to add this prop. And this prop is going to hold the update folder name. Okay. And lets see what seems to be the issue here. Okay, so on. Blur.

5:21:00
H, let me do it this way. And get E in here and pass an E. I mean, its going to get E anyway. But, okay, so, okay, this just the event that were getting from here, right Thats pretty much it. So, let me go ahead and add this event. So, let me see if I can ask the AI to do it. To resolve this error, you need to specify the correct type of the event.

5:21:20
Okay, lets apply that and lets accept. All right, so this is focus event, HTML input, ILL, go up top. And I might be able to do the same thing here as well. Or maybe not, cuz, this is not a focus event. What is this is not generic. Its, not generic. Then, how was I able to do it in here? Oh, react dot. Sorry, guys. React dot focus event. Okay. I think that solved the problem.

5:21:46
Let me try. So I have this. If I click out, not sure what happened, but I may not be able to see it right now. Cuz, the folder technically does not even exist, right? So, did I get an error here? No, I didnt get an error either. All right, guys.

5:22:02
So one more change I'm going to make here real quick is if, were currently renaming the folder, I think it makes more sense not to trigger a second click, right Cuz, you're currently editing this folder, right? So, thats something you might want to add. And I also hate the fact that I added underline in here. So, im going to remove underline. And I would like the padding to actually stay the same.

5:22:22
Let me refresh this real quick. So, click here. Okay, so its not the on blur is not firing. If we need to click outside, I believe. Let me take a look. So. All right, guys. So, the first thing is, the first change I made here is this one, which is on the, on blur. I removed the rename. Okay, because technically speaking, the rename should happen from the call back, right, right, here. So, I remove this.

5:22:51
And the next thing is, I notice that this is being firing fired, right? So, everythings working. I think the issue now is that we need to first create a folder. This is not a real folder, right? If you remember its a fake folder, right? So, we need to set that up. And we also need to get this from the API responses, because the optimistic UI is not going to work, if that doesnt exist, right.

5:23:17
So, lets go one step back. And which is the folders, index, TSX, and lets first complete this step. So, first thing is, we need to get all the workspace folders. So, I'm going to say, const equal to use query data were going to invoke this, and for the key, were going to pass in workspace, das folders. Okay, and then after, for this, were going to need a callback function.

5:23:40
And this callback function is going to take the get workspace folder, callback, server, action, SOR, and were going to pass in the workspace ID, which comes in from here. Okay, so, lets grab the workspace ID and lets pass that in here. Nice. Awesome. And now, because this is a client component, you want to scroll up top and you want to change it to use client, just like this.

5:24:02
All right, now, the first thing is when were creating a folder, again, were going to have a query key, right? Just like how we have workspace folders, were going to have one similar to this called create folder, right? Now, with the help of that create folder, query, key, were going to be able to get the latest variable that comes from our mutation state.

5:24:23
And if you dont know what this is, thats totally fine, because its just the syntax of react query. Okay, react query gives you access to something called variables. Okay. And these variables have the latest state that was changed. So, essentially, its, like, imagine it keeps track of the state, the new things that you just created during the mutation state, right? And when you are mutating something, it essentially stores the new data in there. Okay.

5:24:52
And once thats completed, so once the data, once the API call is successful, these variables get reset, and then it essentially invalidates the previous responses. And it gives you the uptodate information. So, thats kind of what happens under the hood. I hope I got it right, because theres a lot of stuff inside React query, but thats pretty much it. Okay. So lets go back in here into our, I'm also going to close this.

5:25:18
And I'm just going to refresh the browser. Okay, nice. So thats the optimistic variable that we need to create down here. Okay, so, first thing, I'm going to say cons equal to use mutation. But this is called not data, its data state, okay, its a new hook that we need to create. Thats essentially going to give us access to that, to the mutation data that I just spoke about, right? The optimistic variable.

5:25:43
So, open up your hooks folder. And you want to click on the use mutation data. And at the bottom here, were going to export, const used mutation data state. And this is going to need our mutation key that I just spoke about, right? And this is going to be of type mutation key, just like this, sorry. And in here were going to say const data equal to use mutation state. And this comes from react query.

5:26:07
Okay. And essentially, this will return that data that we need. Okay, and were going to get the latest variables. That means the newest data from this updated workspaces data, and then were going to return it to the front end. Okay, thats basically it. So, once we get this, we need to invoke it. And we need to pass in some options. The first one is filters. So, what are we filtering for?

5:26:29
Well, were only filtering for the mutation key. Next, what do we want to select? So, select like this, and were, were selecting, and this actually takes an arrow function. And in here were selecting the variables and the status, right, but were going to get the mutation from here. So, that way, we can get access to the variables and status from this mutation. And down here were going to return a new object with variables.

5:26:57
And this variable is going to be set to this, the mutated state variable. So, were going to say, mutation, state, do variables like this, and were going to rename this as any for now. And next thing we need is the status, this is going to be mutation, state, status. Okay, awesome.

5:27:17
And now, at the bottom here, which is right after this data object were going to say const latest variable, equal to data, at data length minus1. Okay, just like this. And finally, lets return an object here with the latest variable. And I'm going to go back and quickly import the new state, the new used mutation date, state, data state that we just created. Okay, now, first thing, this is going to give us the latest variable.

5:27:45
So, im going to grab that, and I need to provide the, the query keys, right? This one is called create folder, because when we create the folder, like I said, that is also going to be optimistic, right? Were using the mutate function. So, through this latest variables, we can get the latest folders. Okay, next, we also need to get, we also need to destruct structure the status and the data from this latest variable, right?

5:28:12
So, actually, sorry, guys, from this latest data right here, this data, up top. So, first, were going to say status, or actually, first, let me say data as folder, folders. Actually, let me create a, a prop type here. So, I'm just going to scroll up top, and I'm going to say type or export type folders. Props equal to an object. And the first thing I'm going to need is the status itself.

5:28:40
And then were going to need the data, right? So, I'm going to say, data like this. And let me also complete this. So, data were going to get counts. And that count is going to be an object With videos and videos is going to be a number, right, the number of videos itself, and were going to expand on top of this.

5:28:57
So, right after this purple bracket were going to say, and the following, which is ID, name created at, and the workspace, it belongs to. Okay, and there types as well. Well. And this, of course, is going to be an array. And now, we have these types that we can use for this data. So, were going to say data as folder types. And now we can folder, props.

5:29:18
And now we can get the data And the status. Okay, and this data, of course, is this data, here, is actually the folders, sorry, guys. And this is going to be the status. So, essentially just renaming this. Okay. All right. Nice. Cool. And now, the next thing is we, we need to check if the data is fetched. So, everything is successful, right?

5:29:42
So, if is fetched, and the folders exist, then were going to dispatch something to a Redux store, so, we can essentially store that data and we can render it on the client. Okay. All right, guys. Now, please just pause what you're doing and just focus for a few minutes because I want to help you understand how react query works in our application.

5:30:05
So, im going to essentially explain the use mutation, use M mutation data, state, the prefetch queries, how the, you know, how the query keys work, how the mutation keys work. What is the mutation function? All of that stuff, cuz. I realized that you guys are going to need this. Eventually, I dont, want to give you all the research work, because I feel like this is an important topic, right?

5:30:26
So, ILL, ILL, kind of break it down for you. So, you understand every single thing in the simplest manner. Okay. In the simplest possible way. So, everybody can understand. And theres also a Redux store that were adding in here, right Like I mentioned, and I want to help you understand why we need the Redux store in the first place.

5:30:42
And if its, you know, if there was a bypass for it, and all that kind of stuff, okay, so, please just stop what you're doing. I'm going to also put a Tim stamp for the section in the video. So, when you watch other videos that we create in the future, I feel React query is insanely powerful, and I might probably use it in there as well. So, after this, hopefully, you dont hate React query.

5:31:02
And you start to love it. And, you see the power of React query in your NEXTJS application. Okay, so the first thing is, why are we even using React query? The main part is to fetch data and to cach this data. All right, basically, it boils down to this thing. Now, sure, we can use something like Axios, axos, is great to fetch information as well.

5:31:26
Now, the most important part to keep in mind is in NEXTJS, 14, caching still happens, right? You can still cach data, but once next, PS14 goes to 15. Once the update comes out, you are no longer going to have this by default. So, theres no more caching available to you. So, what does this mean? This means if you have data, that is the same thing.

5:31:50
That over and over again, in your application, your app is going to refetch data every single time. So, you're, going to need to wire it up in the first place. You have to wire it up. Do some, you know, I think, maybe provide some variables at the top of the file to essentially let NEXTJS know that file has to cash the responses.

5:32:08
Im, not entirely sure how we are going to be doing it in X1 15. But that, I know that in X14, theres something that we can force dynamic and all that kind of stuff on the top of the file, right? So, it might be something like that. So, these are one, these are two of the main reasons why we need this. Now, theres one more, amazing reason why we need React query.

5:32:27
It is state management in a server component. Does this even make sense? Probably, not, right. So, let me help you understand even more. So lets say you made an API request. So, you made an API request right here. Let me just zoom in. So, an API request was made inside your server component. Okay, so, you made a request to get workspaces Okay, this is the server action. Its not really an API request.

5:32:55
Just think about it as a server action. So, you did this in the server page. Now, whats going to happen is this server action is going to return some data, right, you're going to get a bunch of data in here. So, lets say, for example, its an array of workspaces right? So, ID, and, well, have an ID in here. And then, well, also have something like name. Okay. And, well, have name for now.

5:33:18
I'm just going to say parents, workspace. All right, so, well, get some data from this API. Now, we know for a fact that this data is going to be exactly the same in multiple pages, at least until the user changes it, correct. So, if I wanted to get the same data in an another component, lets say I had another server component in here. So, this is server component number one. Okay.

5:33:45
And then were going to have server compon. Oh, why did this shrink server component number two? All right. Lets say we want to get the same workspace data inside server component number two. And maybe this is like a page that renders out all the information of the workspace itself, right? Like, lets say, in this page, were going to show the ID and the name of the workspace.

5:34:05
Now, what I'm going to need to do in here is, is make an API request again. So, IVE already made this API request twice, right? Now, first benefit is, if the data was cached, right? If this data was cached, then this API request is not going to go through essentially its going to just return cash data, which is great, and we can set that up to do it accordingly.

5:34:27
But, what if I dont, want to even make the API request All I want to do is keep note of the ID that was used to make this API request. So, theres a specific ID. Okay, and this ID is what we call the query key. Okay, so lets say the query key for this was equal to workspaces Okay, I think its different in here, but you get the idea.

5:34:50
So, lets say the query key was, workspaces instead of just making the API request, and then having the server to do everything, we can use our own brains, right? And, we can decide when we want to get the, the cached data or not. And now, that were saying in here, instead of making the API request, why dont you just give me the data for this specific key, query key?

5:35:13
So, instantly, its going to go in, and its going to grab this data, and give it to me. Okay, so, this, the first benefit of using this, so I can control when I want to get the CACH values or not, right? And then theres another benefit to this, what if now I know, okay, I no longer want the old data, I want to get the new data.

5:35:36
Well, all we would have to do is passing an invalidate argument, right? And based on the invalidate argument, it will just invalidate this query key, and it will refetch the data and store the new data. Okay. And we dont, the cool thing is, we dont have to do too much work to make this possible. Its very simple, right, all we have to do is have a argument thats being passed into that function.

5:36:02
And we just have to invalidate the response there. And ILL also show you code now. So it, you understand what, which piece of code does this. Okay, so this is a premium opal code base that we give out for Prodigy University students. So, its going to look different. But, I just want to show you whats going on, right? So, take a look at this, right here. We have something called use query data.

5:36:23
And, this is essentially taking in a key, which is the query key. And you can take a look at this as well. You see query key. And all its doing is its going to return the data that we need. All right. And in here, you can also pass in the API. API, you know, function, or we call it the server action.

5:36:42
Right, so, you can pass in the server action, and it will invoke the server action. It will get you the data for this thing. Okay, so, thats what the used query does under the hood. The used query helps us make that API request right here. So, this, to get data, we use query. Okay, so, use query equal. Get data with a query key. Okay, so hope this is clear in here. Let me also redo this.

5:37:11
I made a spelling error. Okay, so, use query helps us get data with, with a query key. Okay, so, thats how right here were going to instantly get the data that is stored in here. And then we can do whatever we want from here on. Okay. So, now, the data that was fetched from this specific used query with this specific key is in a way cached.

5:37:33
So, I can get this in any file I want, even if this state was changed. Okay, so technically, under the hood, how this works, is it stores it as a form of state. Okay, its still data, because you cannot use state in a server component, it still stores it like a, like a state. All right, like a like response data. Right? Now, lets say the user made a change here.

5:37:59
So, this change, change from parents, workspace to Josephs workspace, okay. So, if it changed, like this, essentially, we also want to get that uptodate data, right? And we want to get it in real time. So, this will also fire like a state, which is super, super powerful. So, any part in our application will also update in real time. All right. And ill show you how we can get access to that, that data as well.

5:38:25
So, now that we understood how to use used query, which is to get any data with the query key, and the data gets cash. So, we can use it in any file to fetch the same data at any time, lets understand what the ED mutation data does instead. Okay, the used mutation data right here is a is basically ED mutation. We just called it ED mutation data.

5:38:45
And essentially, what use mutation does is it gives you access to a mutate function. Okay, this mutate function, when you invoke it, and you pass in some data, which is the, let me see, if I can show you.

5:38:58
An example right here, you see, were invoking mutate, and were adding the new data that we need to add to our to this specific workspace folder, query, key, right, so, right now, if we had a query key, called workspace folders, if we want to add new data to it, we would just say workspace folders, please, you know, basically revalidate this key, right? Revalidate this API endpoint with this key.

5:39:24
And what I want you to do is pass in this new data into this mutate function right here. And that way, in another component in a whole different file, I can access this in real time. I can access this mutate date. Sorry, data. Okay. So, as you can see here, now, in my folders component, I'm saying, use mutation data state, which is essentially the used mutation state. Okay.

5:39:50
Where all were doing is were passing in that key that we used to create this new data. And when we try to use the use mutation date, data state, it essentially returns this exact value. So, take a look at that. So, inside this under the hood, we have used mutation state, right? We pass in the mutation key, which right in here is this one. Create folder.

5:40:14
So, for, create folder, only, we are filtering only for create folder. I want you to select these, the data that I need, and return it to me. Well, what is that in here? Its going to give you access to the mutation. And this mutation is this right here, whatever you passed in. Okay. So this part is stored as the variables, its a new data, right?

5:40:35
Remember, I told you in one of the other, I guess, slides, which is, this, is the variables. That variables, is a realtime data, right? Or temporary data. So, essentially, it takes this, and it stores it as a temporary variable. Okay. And you can get access to it through mutation state variables. This is under the hood. So, you dont have to care about it. But essentially, you get access to whatever you passed in here, inside this.

5:41:00
All right, next, we have something called status. And the status is again under the hood, as well. The essentially react query keeps track of the status of this API response and request. Okay, so it knows if it is still pending, if it was just made, if it was successful.

5:41:18
And based on that, it will return this data were just returning a, a piece of data right here, so, we can take a look at the status, and accordingly render out the variables, because this is temporary, realtime optimistic UI. Okay, so thats the, the whole point of using the used mutation state. So, let me write it in here. So, use mutation state is basically going to help us get the latest optimistic data.

5:41:47
Okay, data that was sent into the mutate function, when it was called using use mutation. Okay, I hope that makes sense. So, this one right here. Now, another question you might have is, how does it invalidate the request when we are creating a new folder. So, right in here, for us, mutation, we passed in the key, right, for this specific mutation, then we passed in a callback function. And this is a server action. Okay.

5:42:14
And the server action will essentially go in, you know, behind the scenes, and it will add the data, and its also going to revalidate this endpoint. And the reason why we pass this endpoint in here is because all folders come through the workspace folders. So, if we revalidate the endpoint, then were going to get the new data, which is the one we just created, plus the old data.

5:42:36
Okay, so lets go into use mutation, and take a look at that as well. So, in here, we have use mutation, which gives us mutate, and is pending. This is that state, the status, sorry, not status, guys, sorry. It tells us if its pending or not. All right, thats pretty much, it dont get confused with status.

5:42:51
All right, but that, this is basically what it does then in here were just passing the, the mutation key, and the mutation function that we wanted, right? So, in here, this is the mutation key. This is the mutation function, which is a server action. And then we have on success. And on, settled on success.

5:43:08
All were doing is returning a toast and were showing like success, everything is completed, and were passing a description in there as well. And if the user has a specific type of on success they want to perform, we will invoke that one as well. But in here, we did not pass in any on success. So, its good to go.

5:43:23
But if you wanted to show an alert message again, you can do that in here as well. All right, but thats pretty much it for on success. Now on, settled, what were doing here is were saying, await client, invalidate queries. Okay. And this is essentially invalidating, based on the query key that was passed in. So this workspace folders. So thats how we invalidate. All right.

5:43:44
So now, you know, use mutation state, then, you know, use mutation in itself, right? Let me do this real quick. All right, nice. And then we finally have one more, which is a prefetch queries. Okay, that is actually very straightforward. Just think about it This way. You cannot use usequery in a server component. Can you? No, because its, you know, only allow to be used in a client component, its a hook.

5:44:09
So, react query has a different way where you can prefetch data on the server and render it on the server side. And that data is also cached. Okay, so you can instantly get access to it through the used query hook if you're using it in a different file. So, now, you know, what is the pref Fetch queries as well? All right, nice. Thats pretty much it.

5:44:32
So, lets go back to our code right here and lets once more, have a final summ of all of this. So, you truly understand whats going on. And yes, this is a new library for us as well. I try to use something completely different. And just because its so much more powerful than just using Axios. And its time, we move to something more advanced, and not just be beginner SAS developers, right?

5:44:54
So, the first thing here is we need use query data, okay, we have a use query, data hook, which is essentially used query under the hood. It helps us, helps us fetch or get data with a query key. Thats it. Okay. Thats the purpose of the used query data. So, we pass in the query key, and we can also pass in the server action. And itll essentially just return that data to us.

5:45:19
Okay, next, we have something called use mutation. The ED mutation is used when you need optimistic updates to the data. And you also want to get data from, get, sorry, not get data, you want to fire functions on settling and on completion, right? Just think about it like this, right? So, and. You also want to revalidate the data. Okay, this is why you would want this.

5:45:50
So, use mutation as a way to create an optimistic entry into the data that weve already fetched. That way, you can render it out like a, like a state on the component. Then we have the use mutation state. And this helps us get whatever we added optimistically to this data response, right? So, in here, if you added an object with new data, you can access that data from the use mutation state. Okay.

5:46:19
And you can do that with the help of a query key again. All right, nice. Then prefetch queries, help us make an API request and kind of store it and kind of render it on the server side. Thats pretty much it. All right. So, I hope this makes sense. Rewatch this and come back to it when you need to. So, it makes a lot more sense as you go on, as time moves on.

5:46:42
But, I just wanted to point this out, right? Because how this works is we would be the, the reason why this could be confusing for a lot of people. And, it, it is confusing for me as well, is because in here, we have something called mutation state, data, create folder, but no ones going to know where this is coming from, right?

5:46:59
Theres, no way theres no single source of truth as to where to look for this. So, the way this work works, and I know this library could really be improved. But the way this works is it gets entangled in code, right? But it helps, you save like hundreds of lines of code, and its much more efficient. And again, it gives you a lot more power over just an axios response and request.

5:47:24
Okay, so, thats the problem. Because it interven, it, it kind of interleaves all of the code files, because here you have create folder, and in a different file, you have the create folder. Thats the reason why you're getting this in here, right? Because if you're, getting used mutation data state, that means you need to have created the state, using used mutation somewhere else. Right? So, thats the confusion. Where is that file coming from?

5:47:48
Thats the problem. So, all you need to understand right now is when were making, when were storing some optimistic data in one location, we can access that optimistic data in another location in real time, of course, using the use mutation data state. All right. And use query can help us fetch data with the query key. And the prefetch queries help us pretty much prerender data. On the service side. Thats pretty much it.

5:48:14
Okay, now, lets skip over this and lets go to the next part down here, which is the Redux store. So, the Redux store technically is not needed. We dont even need Redux in here because the power of this, the, I mean, react query is super powerful. It pretty much like replaces Redux.

5:48:33
And if you watched my videos in the past, you will know that I have pretty much created a Redux like library completely from scratch, and showed you how to use React Context API under the hood, right? You can watch Plura, thats one of my biggest videos. And that video went absolutely viral because of the capabilities of an, of a software like that, right? And in that application, we used Redux. Sorry, we did not use Redux.

5:48:58
We used React Context API under the hood. Okay, so, I showed you in detail how we can build something exactly like Redux. But, but in this project, I also wanted to introduce you to Redux concepts. That way, you remember, you know, how Redux works, and not just React Context API. And the reason is because in a production environment, you will never want to use React Context API.

5:49:21
If you want to keep track, and you want to get the benefits of bug tracking, the, you know, the Redux dev tools and all this kind of fun stuff, right? So, if you're using React Context API, you're not going to get all these features. So, eventually, you're going to need to move to Redux. So, its better to in ruce everything to you.

5:49:37
Okay, so let me first show you what were going to, I mean, were not really using Redux that much in here, but ILL, just show you what were doing, right? So, every time we add a folder, lets say, if this is our folders array, right, every time we add an, a folder in here were going to put a folder, like right here, right? So, folder is going to be added in here.

5:49:57
And then were going to add one more inside our Redux store. And as we keep adding, were going to constantly keep updating this, right? Now, the question here is, what if I want to move a video inside one of the folders, right? The way I would do this, if I was using mutation, I could just use mutation, and update the data, right? But we dont want to do that.

5:50:19
I want to show you how to do this through Redux. So, you understand Redux as well. And thats, why were just using Redux? Okay, theres nothing, theres no clever reason why were using Redux? Its, just that I want to help you guys understand Redux as well, and thats pretty much it.

5:50:33
So, the, for now, the main purpose as to why I would need Redux in here is, were going to need it to move videos from one folder to another folder. Okay, thats pretty much it. Okay, so, now that we know what the latest variables is right here, this is essentially those variables that we passed into the mutate function, hopefully.

5:50:51
Now, you have more context as to why we need to render this out at the bottom, because when we are adding a new folder, we want to render this data right here, okay, because its a new folder that was pretty much added as Optimistic UI. Okay, so first thing now, now, hopefully you understand why we need these keys to be without any spelling errors, right?

5:51:14
So, something doesnt work, the way you expect to first look at the spellings you've written for the keys, and then you can debug from there. So, now that we have this, we have to go ahead and set up redux, right? Because, or actually not very important, right? Now, I'm, just going to hide it for now. Well, come back to this later. Okay, so, first thing is scroll down here, and where it says CN function.

5:51:37
Remember, I told you, we have to add some values in here, based on the status, right? Thats what were going to do. So were going to say, if status is not equal to 200, okay, its not equal to 200. So, something went wrong, then we will render out a special style in here called justify center. Okay. And if not, well, render all of this. Okay. Cool.

5:51:57
The next thing is, lets scroll down here, and im going to remove this folder for now. I'm going to open a curly bracket. And I'm going to say, if stat status is equal to, oh, sorry, is not equal to 200, then, well, do something right here. If not, well, do something right here.

5:52:15
Now, if this was successful, if this was not successful, right, status is not equal to 200, were going to return a paragraph with a class name, text neutral, and ILL change this to 300. Okay. And were all were going to say is no folders. Okay, so no folders in workspace, like this. All right, so no folders in workspace, nice. And then down here, we want to return a React fragment.

5:52:40
And inside this react fragment, I'm going to say, if latest variables, if this exist, and latest variables, status equal to pending. Okay, you see, were getting some states, right? This is coming from the react query under the hood. Okay. If its equal to pending. Why did it not give me? Pending pending. Then were going to return the folder. But this folder isch, technically, just going to be a pretty much like a placeholder. Okay.

5:53:10
And well, create the styles for that in just a second. But let me first finish this section. And now, after this were going to say folders, map, because we have all the folder data thats coming from here, right? This one right here. So, this data, pretty much because we used Usequery to fetch the data, right, from Workspace folders, were going to rename that to folders here.

5:53:29
And were going to return that so we can render it down here. So, were going to say map and for this, were going to get the folder itself, and were going to return another folder in here, but were going to put all of the values, all of the props that it needs. So, we need name, count, ID, and key. Okay. And you can get it from this right here.

5:53:48
So, you can type this out, pause the video, and just type it real quick. Okay, now, for this one, we need to provide the name and the ID of the newly added folder, right? And, of course, you didnt see it. I mean, I did technically show you another slide of what it looks like.

5:54:04
But when we are calling the mutate function, right, the mutate function from another file, which is the create folder file, were going to be passing in an object, right, that object is going to have the name and the ID. So, thats what we need in here to show the optimistic UI. So, I'm going to say the name is going to be the latest variable.

5:54:22
So, this one latest variables, okay, variables, name, and the IDs, latest variables, variables, ID. Okay, cool. Thats pretty much it. And down here, we also have to pass, pass optimistic, because were going to need to set up some stuff in here. So, lets go into this component. So, first, lets render out the optimistic UI.

5:54:44
So, down here in the first div based on the CN U, sorry, based on the optimistic prop that was passed in, were going to say, if optimistic Exist, then were going to show opacity of 60. Okay, so I'm going to put 50 for now, and ILL, change this to 60 and put a comma right after this. Okay, so, that way, it just shows like a blurred element.

5:55:05
So, they cant really well, technically, they can click on it. But just to show that it was just adding in there, right? You dont even have to do that, because you can just pretty much roll back to the previous data. It will do it automatically. And react query, does that for us. So, thats another amazing reason why to use react query. Okay. All right, then we also need this in one more location, I think.

5:55:26
Let me see. Okay, I think we are good to go. All right, were good to go in that. So, I'm going to go back to this folder right here. And let me make sure I have everything in here as well. Okay, for now, I think, were good. I'm going to add another work in progress flag saying, add redux stuff for folders. Okay, so I can come back to this.

5:55:46
Now, I want to go into the page. Tsx. And I see something in here called create folders, right? So, I want to complete this component. So, I can render out folders in the, in this section. So, first thing is, I'm going to render a button in here. So, im going to say button component and give it a class name. And the class name is going to be as follows. So, its going to look like this.

5:56:11
All right, so please add the BG1. D1D, 1D, text, 707070, flex item center gap to padding y of 6, padding X of four, and rounded to L. And inside the button were going to say, were going to add the folder plus do aone. I made a spelling error there, but thats fine. Create a folder like this, and lets see whats wrong with this button. Why did it not import? Okay, that should fix that error.

5:56:38
And it also needs an onclick handler. So, as you can see here, we have the create folder, right? So, when you click this, we want to create a folder, but were going to add the optimistic UI data, which is, were going just going to call it untitled folder. Okay, so up here were going to say, const on, create, actually, sorry.

5:56:56
This is called const were going to destructure something that gets returned from this, its called use create folders. And this is another hook thats going to help us create folders using the mutation, and stuff like that. Okay, so go down here. Inside hooks, I'm going to create another file. Looks like I just jump to a different file. Okay, were going to say, use create folders, typescript.

5:57:19
And in here, I'm going to return, okay, I cant do that. I have to, sorry, I thought this was a component. So, were going to say, use create folders equal to an arrow function, right? And this arrow function is going to take in the workspace ID, which is going to be a string. And in here first, were going to say equal to use mutation data, right?

5:57:41
Because were making a change to our, our data that was previously returned back from the workspace folder key, right? Thats the API request. We made to fetch all the data for the workspace folders. So, since were making a change on that, we need to use the use mutation data. And this is optimistic stuff. Thats pretty much it. So, now, this is going to give us access to mutate.

5:58:01
So, lets grab that, and the first one is going to be our key. So, this is going to be called create folder. This is the mutation key, okay, not the query key. And next, we have to pass in a call back function. This is actually the server action. So, the SER action for this is going to be create folder. And of course, we dont have this right now. So, I'm, just going to say, create folder.

5:58:21
And I'm going to invoke, why is it importing that. Create folder. All right. And well, invoke this for now. And then, well, get to that in a second. And then next, we need to pass in the query key itself, right? So, the query key is going to be the third parameter. So right here, the query key is going to be workspace, please dont make any errors here. Okay, workspace. DAS folders, just like this.

5:58:41
All right, nice. Now, lets go ahead and create the server action. So, this server action can be inside the worksspace, do typescript, inside actions. So, I'm going to say export const. So, create workspace folder, sorry, create folder. And inside this first changes to an async function. And this is going to give us the workspace ID, which is going to be a string. And in here, im going to use a tr catch block. Okay, try catch.

5:59:07
Const is new folder equal to await client. Import that client. Workspace, do update. Okay. And for this, were essentially going to add a new worksspace to it, right, so where, for the ID is, workspace, ID, the data that we want to add is going to be like this. So were going to say data folders, and were going to create, we can pass a name and videos. And I think that would probably make more sense.

5:59:39
But for now, let me just do it like this. You probably want to pass an untitled in here, right? But, yeah, you probably want to pass an untitled in here. Let me see. So name, im just going to say, untitled. Okay, that should be good. And for ID, I think that should be fine. Okay. Cu. Its going to autogenerate.

5:59:57
And next were going to say if new folders, if this is successful, and this is actually not folders, this is folder. So, if this is successful, right, were going to return an object. And in here were going to say status of 200. And then we want to pass in the message, and this message is going to be new folder created. Okay, nice. And im going to copy this.

6:00:19
And down here, im going to catch an error. And here also, you can catch an error saying 400 could not create folder, right? And down here, you can also pass, actually, this is already going to get caught by the bottom if there was any error. So, this can be 5,100 server error and say, Oops, something went wrong. Okay, nice. I'm going to go back and quickly import the create folder, server action.

6:00:46
And I'm going to pass in the workspace ID. Okay. Now, the reason why I'm using this hook, is, I want to return a call back function that, that they can use to invoke this mutate. Okay, so, all im going to do is im going to say, on create new folder, which is a call back. And in here, I'm going to in invoke mutate. So, let me remove this. We dont need this. Really?

6:01:09
I'm going to invoke mutate. And im going to pass in the name, I'm going to call this untitled, right? Like this. And for the ID, I'm just going to pass an optimistic ID. Okay. Just something like this for now. All right, I think I made a spelling error. There we go. That should solve that problem. Nice. And after this, we also have to return the oncreate new folder, right? So, on. Create new folder. Nice.

6:01:32
Now lets go back and import the used create folder. And lets also grab this one from here. And this needs the workspace ID. So, I, oh, I have to actually first get it from here. So, workspace ID is going to be a string. So, im going to get it from here. And in here as well. So, let me grab this. All right, nice. And now I can use workspace ID. Cool. Oh, sorry, guys.

6:01:56
This has to be destructured here. Workspace ID. All right. Awesome. So this. Okay, so since this is a client component, scroll up top, and you want to change this to use client. First thing. Nice. And now this handler, click handler can be passed in directly into this button. So were going to say onclick, and we can pass in the oncreate new folder.

6:02:19
So, when we click this button, its going to invoke this function, the mutate, and its going to pass in this, right. And now inside our folders component, this is a client component, of course, right? Were using the used query, hook, sorry, used mutation data state in here, which is going to give us the latest variable. So this will update in real time based on this query key. Right. And this is mutation key.

6:02:43
Sorry, not query key. So based on this mutation key, the latest variable will update. And accordingly, we should show a folder right here. Okay, and it should be gray out. Thats what should happen. Okay, so, ILL, go ahead, give it a shot. And hopefully it works If not, well, find the solution. All right. So lets go ahead, click on create folder. There we go. Looks awesome. Great job, guys.

6:03:05
And now, if you refresh, you're, going to, you're, going to notice this folder will still be in here. Okay, let me try to rename this. Okay. And if I click outside, okay, I think the reason is because we dont have a hook to essentially, or do we even have that? Let me just take a quick look. Okay, so something is wrong with the rename functionality.

6:03:25
And of course, im going to go ahead and try to fix that. So, just give me a second. All right, so I just went to Prisma Studio. And I just deleted all the folders I had, so I can just start from scratch. And first, I want to see if my create is working as well. So if you click on create, instantly, it shows a folder. Awesome.

6:03:45
And then the other thing is, when I click on this, right, right here, when we click outside its supposed to save it. But theres some issue happening inside our update. So, lets go ahead and fix that. So, you want to go inside the folder. TSX, right? And down here, remember, when we are saying, data is the data name, right? Were essentially passing this call back in here, which is the server action.

6:04:10
And the server action is going to, you know, pretty much rename all the data. But in here, we need to pass in. Not name, because name is coming from the prop, right? We need to passing data name. All right. So, thats the issue here. So make sure you do that. So, make sure you pass data name. Now, when I change this, you're going to notice, lets change it to testing.

6:04:34
If I click out side, there you go. Awesome. It changed, right? So, why is it making this quick flicker Theres, a tiny little flicker there, right? The flicker is because we are not rendering the latest values in this component. Okay. Because right now, what were doing is, were plugging in the name, the name is coming directly from the prop, right? And were plugging in that prop name instead.

6:05:01
So, instead of this, you want to do something that looks exact. L, like this, which is down here. You want to use the use mutation, data state. And you want to use the update or rename folder, whatever the key is for that mutation. Let me actually see what that mutation is. Lets go down to folder, folder, like this. Okay, so, that mutation key is called rename folders.

6:05:24
And then you're going to get the newly mutated data, right, with the help of this mutate, remember, whatever is being passed into this mutate value is essentially what were sending, then using the use mutation data state, this hook right here, where is this? Okay, right here, you can get the latest variables, and then based on the latest variables, you can render out a probably like a placeholder, and you can change it to the original text.

6:05:54
Thats pretty much it. Okay, so, theres nothing wrong here, because if I refresh, you see it shows testing, everything looks good, okay. And another thing I would like to talk about is, if you are not in a sort of a hydration error, thats totally fine. I think thats just a caching bug. There is something known as a stale state. And when the, pretty much the data becomes stale, that means its already been fetched.

6:06:19
And based on a certain timeline, I think maybe 1 second, or I dont know if its 0er seconds, or 1 second, but based on the stale number that you provide, the stale timer, it will consider the data as stale. And only then will it refresh. Refetch. Okay, so its fine, you're good to go, because users is not going to create folders, and then immediately refresh.

6:06:40
Cu, we are using this feature right here to show the power of optimistic UI, right, so, theyre not going to refresh the data. So, you should be good to go. All right, now, go ahead and pause this video. And I would like for you to take this up as a challenge. Your goal is to solve this flicker bug. I just gave you the solution. I told you exactly what you need to do.

6:07:02
So, go ahead, pause it and try to give it a shot. If you get the answer, great. If you dont, ill show you exactly what you need to do. All right, hopefully you got the right answer. If not, no problem. So, first thing is, you want to scroll down here, and you want to say const latest variables, equal to use mutation data state, and you're going to get rename folders in here.

6:07:25
Okay, then you dont have to do console, but now that we have the latest variables, this is the mutated data, right? The optimistic mutated data. So, we have to do is down here under our paragraph tag.

6:07:39
We want to look inside this, and we want to say if latest variables exist, and the status is pending, and the ID of the variable is equal to ID, then we want to render out that variable name, or were just going to render whats provided in the props. Okay. Now, where are we getting this This ID from. I added an extra property in here, called ID. Okay.

6:08:02
That way, we can help distinguish which folder is being rendered. So, now, if I click on this, and if I change it to something else, and if I click outside, there is no flicker. Okay, awesome. So, our next step is when the user clicks on this card, its going to take them into that specific folder, right?

6:08:22
So, we want to accommodate a route that can essentially help this no longer throw A4 for error, so, you want to go into your workspace ID right in here, and you're going to create another folder, called folder. Okay. And inside this, you're going to put the folder ID. So, inside it first, create a dynamic route, call it, call it folder ID. And inside this, you want to create an index. All right, guys.

6:08:49
Looks like I made a small error here, so, I'm just going to quickly delete this and do this one more time. So, lets go back up, top And inside my folder, I'm going to create another folder, which is a dynamic ID called folder. ID. Okay. And inside that, I need a page. TSX. Now, you can also create another route in the root folder.

6:09:11
In that folder, you can essentially make an API call to the back end. And you can get the first folder. And you can just route the user to that folder. Okay, just as a way to, you know, not show a 404 response. Thats what you want to do, right. So, you can do that if you want. But im going to save some time here. And first thing im going to do is return a component.

6:09:31
And next, I'm going to get the PAMs. So, im going to say PAMS, just like this. And this is going to give me the folder ID, which is going to be a string. And I'm also going to get the worksspace ID, which will also be a string as well. All right, going to put it on their own line. And now, I'm also going to destructure the PAMs. And from this destructure workspace, and the folder ID.

6:09:51
Now, first thing is, we need to create our client, right? Because in this file first, we need to prefetch our folder, videos and the folder information, okay, such as, you know, the number of videos that are inside that, and all that kind of stuff.

6:10:06
So, we need to get this information, prefetch it in this file, and then were going to use the hydration boundary to provide the state to all the components that are within that hydration boundary. Okay, so, first thing to, to prefetch, you need, you need a query client, right? So, we going to say const query equal new query, client. Okay, so this comes from TAN stack, react query. So, dont forget to import that as well.

6:10:31
Next, were going to say query, await query. Do prefetch queries, and were going to invoke this. But this has to change to an async component. So, im going to change that first. And now, the first thing I need to pass in is the query key. So, im going to paste this. So, I dont make any spelling errors. Please make sure you take a look at this and make cross, check the spelling.

6:10:52
So, you dont make any spelling errors as well. Okay, next were going to need a query function, and this is an arrow function, and its going to need a server action. Thats going to help us fetch this data. And this server action is called get all user videos. Okay. So im going to invoke this. So, now we can get the videos that are respective for this folder.

6:11:14
And I need to pass in the folder ID as well. Okay, and weve already created this, right? I hope you remember. So, all were going to do is just call this and pass in the folder ID. So, now, we have this prefetched on the server side. Okay, the next one is, were going to need the folder info. So, go ahead, pause this video and just take it up as a A challenge.

6:11:35
See if you can create the get folder info, server action, and the prefetch query to get the folder information as well. Okay, awesome. Hopefully you got it. If not, this is the answer. First thing is, were going to say, await query. Prefetch query were going to pass in the key, but please recheck this key, if you type something else, but its just folder info.

6:11:59
And then were going to need the query function, which is going to be get folder information. And in that were going to need to pass the folder ID. So, if you had a different name, you can change it right now. Okay, so im going to click on this, and copy this name. I'm going to go into my workspace, typescript, and under the actions folder. And im going to scroll to the bottom.

6:12:20
And im going to export H, the get folder info. And this is going to take the folder ID first. So folder ID, which is going to be a string. And inside this, I'm going to have my tr catch block. Okay. And first thing is, I want to say con folder equal to await client folder, doind unique, and all were going to do is, say where the ID is, like the folder ID that the user provided.

6:12:48
Okay, this, this has to be an async function. Okay, so dont forget to change that as well. And were going to select the following data were going to select the name. So set this to true. We also need the count, and not count, count. And in count, were going to select, man, sorry, that just cracked me out. Were going to have videos and were going to set that to true as well.

6:13:09
Okay, so we have name count s and get the videos. Okay. And now, after this, if the folder was returned, then were going to return an object with status set to 200, and data set to the folder. Awesome. Now, if this failed down here, were going to return status of 400. And the data will be set to null. Okay. And I'm going to copy this and do the same in here. Okay, catch error.

6:13:39
And down here, you can essentially return 44,500. Ill, just return 500. Okay, makes more sense. All right, now lets go back and quickly import our server action. Okay, nice. Now, we can have our hydration boundary. So, remove all of all of this stuff in here. I'm going to create the hydration boundary component. I'm going to invoke it and import, sorry, import it.

6:14:01
And then next thing is for state, we need to dehydrate the data and were going to pass in our query client. And now, inside this, we can essentially create the components. So, the first thing we need is a component called the folder info. All right, so I'm going to copy this name. I'm going to open up the folder structure. Scroll down to components, go right into folders. And in here, I'm going to create info.

6:14:27
TsX or folder, dasinfozentrum, first prop we need in here is a folder ID, which is a string. So, I'm going to go ahead and grab this right away. And I can also go back and quickly import this component. So I can pass in the prop. Okay, so now we already have the folder ID. So, I'm going to say folder. ID equal to the folder ID, just like this.

6:14:53
And if I go into this component now, in here, I can basically proceed. Okay, so, the first thing is, I want to use our use query data, right? Remember, use query is to pull data, is to get data. So, I'm going to say, const equal to use query data, I'm going to invoke it. And, I need to pass in the query key. And, the query key I need in here is folder info.

6:15:19
And I think we already have the folder info in here, right? So, thats basically what were doing. So, were going to say, folder, dasinfozentrum ID in here. So, this way, if the user try to access this page, were also fetching the data if needed, or were also going to get cache data, right? So, now, this is going to give us access to the data thats returned from here.

6:15:46
So, im going to destructure and grab the data. Then, im going to say, rename this as folder. And were going to set this equal to data as folder. Props. Okay. Just like this. And we already have this. So we can import it. Right. And now, this data is going to have a this specific type. Okay. Now, in here, first thing, remove this also lets bring this back.

6:16:12
And if I click on this, okay, it takes me in here, but there seems to be an error. ID, like for you to think, what do you think is the, is a problem? Why am I seeing this error right here? Okay, hopefully you got the right answer. The answer is to change this to a use client component. Okay. This error cost me hours. All right.

6:16:32
So, I hope you never make that issue, that error ever again. But yeah. So first thing is, I'm going to set some style on this, so, I'm going to set it to flex item center, and here for H2, I'm going to set the color of the text to the following. Okay, so please copy this. And next, I'm going to set this to toxel.

6:16:52
And ID, like to also apologize on my side, my end, because I had to hardcode the colors, because it was a last minute thing. And it was, it was a very difficult process, because I did actually think about it in the beginning. And I just wanted to get over with the project and get it done for you guys as fast as possible, right?

6:17:11
But, usually, you would have to take all of this and put it into your tailwind config file. All right, right Here, you can create some styles, or you can also go into your CSS file, and you can change the classes directly in there. Okay, but sorry about this guys. But its, its pretty much the same thing doesnt really matter. I just wanted to let you know. So I'm going to say folder, name. Ins inside this something.

6:17:36
Something looks wrong. Whats going on folder, folder, dot. HM. Okay, so I made a small error. So this is folders. Props, right? We actually need one folder. So what you can do is, is, I think, can you do this? Is this possible? No, you cant, I mean, there is a way, but I just want to go create it right away. So I'm going to go into the type folder down here. Okay.

6:18:15
And I'm going to create this type, just like this. So folder prop, not folders, but folder prop. And in this, I'm going to say, status of, why is this? Okay. Status number, data, name, count, and videos. Okay, now I can go back and quickly import the folder. Props and let me delete the other one. And now I can say name. Okay, so lets, see what it renders out. Okay, null is not an object.

6:18:42
What an amazing feeling. Lets see whats going on. All right, guys. So I found the issue when I clicked on this, and I took a look at the URL, I noticed a percentage 70 attached to the end, which was really weird. And then I checked my file to see where I'm doing that. And im not doing it anyway, right anywhere.

6:18:59
But I noticed I have a bracket here, and that was getting converted into that weird ID. So now, if I go back, and if I click on this, al, have an alert message, dont know why its still showing that I thought I already removed it, then I, yeah, I already did. Let me refresh this one more time and lets click on this. And now that should solve our problem. Oops, sorry. What am I doing?

6:19:21
All right. So, click, and there you go. Now it takes me there. Okay, so lets go back, click once. More. Awesome. All right, so that was the error. Hopefully you found it. If not, no problem. Thats all you have to do. Now, the next component we need to show is the videos component. All right, thats pretty much it. I mean, our application isnt, that complex, but I mean, thats all it takes, right?

6:19:42
You dont always have to solve a complex problem, just find a problem that the market is facing and solve it through a simple solution. Thats pretty much it. So, first thing is, were going to show this video element here, and then were going to show cards down in here. Okay, so I just wanted to show you this design. So, you know what were building next. So, lets go in here first and write for the folders.

6:20:05
Info were going to create a videos component. Okay, so copy this videos component. And you're going to open up your folder structure. You're going to scroll down to components right here. And inside the global components, you're going to create another folder in here, and you're, going to call it preview, or sorry, you're going to call it video videos. And inside that, you're going to create an index. TSX.

6:20:28
And im going to render out this videos component right in here. So, first thing is, is this needs a couple props. We need the location ID. We need the videos, key, and the workspace ID as well. And this location ID is just the folder ID. Okay, dont get confused. ILL actually change it right away. Okay. Its folder ID next lets quickly go ahead and destructure, all these values as well. All right, nice.

6:20:54
And now were going to use again, the Usequery data to fetch all these videos. Okay, so were going to say, const actually, am I passing in this data? All right. So, lets go in here first and pass in all the props that we need to. Right? So, the first one is the workspace ID. And that is going to be not PAM workspace ID, but its just going to be workspace ID.

6:21:14
Then we need the folder ID. What is this folder ID? Let me see if I'm even accepting. Oh, I didnt even import the component. So first go ahead and import this component. Okay. And now you should get folder ID and this folder ID is equal to just folder ID from the props, right? And the next one is a videos key. This is important. Its called folder, DVIDeos. Okay. All right, I already made a spelling error.

6:21:41
So, yeah, please make sure its the same spelling. Okay. Now lets go back in here. And first thing, like I said, we need to make that call, right, that API call to essentially get all our query data, right? So, get the information first, right And were getting it from our cache data. So, first thing is, were going to say, use query data, invoke this, and this is going to take in first, the videos key, right?

6:22:09
Next, we need a callback function. And this callback function is get all users videos, you want to invoke that. And you want to pass in the folder ID as well. Okay, now, this is going to give us the data. So, im going to get it, and im going to instantly rename it to video data. Okay, just like this. Nice. And now that I have this, I can essentially use this name instead of the data itself.

6:22:31
Now, I also want to typ cast this. And, and so, to do that, im just going to first also destructure some more values. So im going to say, status is going to be videos, status, and data is going to be the videos itself. And this is equal to video data. And were going to typ cast this as videos, props. Okay, so lets go ahead and create this.

6:22:52
So open up your folder structure, you want to scroll all the way to the bottom, under types, and you're going to say video props equal to status number, data, which is an object thats going to have user, which is going to have first name, last name, image, which is string, null, string, null, or string, null. And or this user itself can also be null.

6:23:11
Then ID, string processing, boolean folder is going to be this essential data, right? So ID and name, or it can be null created at date. Title, string, and null source is string as well. And if you now remember the processing, thats essentially what this is. Okay. So lets go back and im going to import our video props. Okay, nice. Awesome.

6:23:33
And, and now at the bottom right here, im going to remove whatever were rendering right here. And im going to render out a div. And in here, first thing is, im going to provide a class name. I'm going to say flex. Flex, das column gap of four, and margin, top of four. And inside this, im going to create another div. Flex items, d center.

6:23:54
Justify between, and inside this, were going to create another div, which is flex items, center and gap of four. Okay, nice. And now, inside this, we can create, we can essentially show the videos header, right, this section right here. So the first thing is, were going to say videos recorder, duone. Okay. And then we need an H2 element with a class name, text. And I'm going to put this color. Okay.

6:24:24
And then im going to set text to excel. And inside the H2, im going to say videos. So if I click inside this, it should take me into, if I click on this, actually, let me refresh as well. It should take me inside that. All right, so im seeing some errors, because this needs to be a client component as well. So im going to change that.

6:24:42
And now, if I refresh, awesome, it shows the videos, right? Cool. Next down here, I want to essentially, actually, not here, I'm going to hit enter. After this div, im going to create a section tag. And the class name is going to need CN function.

6:24:59
And for this, im going to say, if video status is equal to, to, sorry, is not equal to 200, then im going to do something in here, or I'm going to do something else. So essentially, were just rendering some sort of a placeholder, right? Thats pretty much it. And the placeholder is just going to have padding of five. Okay.

6:25:19
And if not, if everything is successful, then were going to pretty much render out a grid for all of our cards. And its going to be like this. So grid, grid, column 1, gap, 10 from medium, devices, grid, column 2. Two, if im large grid, column 3 on Excel devices, grid columns 4 to xcel is grid column 5. Okay. I'm also going to remove this double quote here. All right, nice. And thats it.

6:25:45
Now, inside the section, if the video status is equal to 200, then well, do something in here or well, do something else. All right, first, if its successful, then were going to loop over the videos. So videos, map, and for this, were going to get access to the video itself. So lets grab that, and in here were going to return a video card. Okay, so card ELEMENT, just like this.

6:26:09
Now, of course, we dont have this. So were going to create that. But before this, I also want to return a paragraph tag, a paragraph tag, like this. And for the class name, im going to give it this class, this color. And in here, im going to say, no videos in workspace. Okay, so its just going to show like this, just to show something. All right, thats pretty much it.

6:26:32
Now, for the video card, ele elent, just for now, what im going to do is im going to hide this. Im going to also make sure I put my work in progress flag. Add videos, logic. Okay. And down here, im going to render out the video card element, which of course, im going to create as well. But now we can see what were doing. Okay, so open up your folder structure.

6:26:56
And you want to go into your videos folder under components, I'm also going to create a video, dash, Oops, video card. TSX. And I'm going to return a component and rename it. And now, this is going to need some props. This is basically the videos, props. But for now, I'm just going to copy this, guys. Please pause and type. All right. I dont want to waste too much time here.

6:27:21
So, pause and just type its just Typescript stuff. Okay. Now, after this in here, you can just keep it as props. No problem. And first thing I want to do is I want to create this days ago, or how many days ago was this uploaded? And we can do that with the help of a date, right That created at date.

6:27:43
So, for now, again, I'm going to have another work in Progress flag and say, keep date later. All right. Or wire update. Okay, this is enough because we just want to work on the layouts. So, in here, first, I'm going to render out a loader component. Okay, a loader component just like this. And for, for the state, im just going to say false. Okay. And now lets go back and quickly import our video card.

6:28:12
And now I can pretty much mess with this, if I need to. So lets refresh this real quick. All right. Awesome. And inside this loading, im going to show a div with the following class names. So, please pause and type its overflow, hidden cursor pointer, background, this color, relative border, one pixel border with this color, flex, flex, column, and round it. Excel.

6:28:34
And the next one is another div in here, but this div is going to have the following class names. So I'm going to say absolute top of three, I'm going to say, Z50, flex, flex, column gap, y of three. Okay. Now, inside this first thing is we need to have the card menu, right? So, card menu. Let me see if I can recollect. What is card Menu?

6:28:56
Okay, so were going to have a card menu option. And I think it might, I might make it this one, but its essentially just a modal thats going to, to show us all of the available options, right? So, theres going to be multiple options for that specific card. And we can perform those actions inside that model. Thats pretty much what it is. Okay. So, in here, first thing I'm going to do is say card menu.

6:29:18
Okay. And, of course, I got to create this now. So, I'm going to open up my folder structure. I'm going to say menu, tsX, or card, menu, video, card, menu. And I'm going to import this new component. And I'm just going to use this real quick. Next, this one is going to need some props, right? So, I'm going to get the video ID. I'm going to need the workspace ID as well.

6:29:42
I'm going to need the current folder, right? And the folder name. Okay. Now, these two are optional. So we may not be, its not really needed, but I'm just going to provide this as well. And down here, I'm going to destructure all these values. Nice. And now, the first thing is, I'm going to remove this and render out a modal component. So our modal, right? So our modal component from our folder.

6:30:06
And this is going to need the first class name. So, for the class name, please pause and type. And im going to need a description title. So, I'm, just going to provide something for now. It doesnt matter what it is, guys. Just provide something for now. Okay. And the trigger is going to be an icon that looks like looks like a move icon. Okay, so I think I can show you as well.

6:30:30
So, for trigger, im going to bring in this move icon, just like this, and then give it size 20. Fill with this color and the text name. I'm going to set this color. Okay. And now, inside this, we got to provide the component that this model should render. So, before this, im also going to go back and import my card menu. Okay, nice. Lets refresh the browser. Okay, cool.

6:30:52
And now one more thing guys, I dont think were going to be able to preview this yet, because we have a bunch of styling stuff to set. So if you dont know whats going on, dont worry about it. Its just a modal. Okay, so nothing, nothing too confusing. So just follow through its a very simple component. Nothing too confusing. Okay, so first lets go back to our video component, which is under our videos index. TsX.

6:31:15
And we have to provide the workspace ID. And this is going to be the workspace ID. Next, we need to use the spread operator And pass in everything we got from video, which is, let me see where that is. Okay. So, for now, of course, we dont have this. So, let me see if I can get some mock data. Okay, so let me see if I can copy this. And im going to chat.

6:31:36
And im going to say, please give me mock data for one video. Here is the schema. Okay Going to paste the schema, and just give it a second. And its going to give me some amazing data. All right, now I can copy this, and I can shrink this, and up top here, I'm just going to past this. So now I can call this video, I dont want videos, I just want one video.

6:32:03
Im going to copy this video in here. Scroll to the bottom, and im going just going to use the spread operator. Okay. Now, going back into our video card in our card menu, we also need to provide these props. Right, so this one needs video ID, the current workspace, ID, the folder and the folder name. So, I'm going to go back here. And inside this, all I'm going to do is provide those props. Okay.

6:32:28
So, current folder name is props, folder name, video ID, is props. ID, same Same thing. Okay. And yeah, thats it. So current folder is going to be the folder ID, probably should have changed this, this name here, this prop name, but its fine. And then current workspace is props.for ID. Okay. All right. Now lets go into this card component and lets just completely, like finish this completely.

6:32:50
So, here were going to need a change video location component. So, I'm going to bring this in. And this is going to need all of these props as well. So, I'm going to drill these in here. I know its really bad, but essentially were passing in the current folder, the workspace, the video ID, and the current folder name. So, copy this, name, open up your folder structure, and you're going to go into forms right here.

6:33:14
You're going to create one inside. Let me see. Give me one second. So, in here, I'm going to create one called change Video location. Its going to have an index, TSX, and of course, were going to need a schema typescript right? Now, inside the index TSX file, first thing is, were going to render out a template in here and were going to need those props. Right?

6:33:37
So the props here are video ID, current folder, the workspace, and the folder name. And now lets go ahead and also destructure, all these values. Okay, nice. And now in here, first thing is, were going to use another HOOK. This is called the use, move videos. Okay, with the help of this, we can get access to all of the folders, and pretty much its going to help us with moving it optimistically. Okay.

6:34:04
But for now, I want to first solve this error here. So, im going to go back, and not in my schema file inside my video card menu. And im going to import this component. So, lets just give that a second, lets go back in here. And what is it saying? Properties, null. Use, context, hello. Okay, never mind. Okay. So create the work in progress flag. And im going to say, wire up the use move folder.

6:34:30
Okay, cuz, thats next. But for now, im going to first create our form element, so we can see what were building, at least to some extent, right? So for form, the class name is going to be flex, D, column, its going to be gap, dy, D5. And inside this were going to actually, we also need an onsubmit. But okay, well, do that later.

6:34:51
So were going to say div, a class name is going to have border. 1 pixel rounded DXL, and padding of five. Okay. And now inside this were going to create our H2 elements. And this H2 is going to have a class name of text, xs margin, bottom of five text of a specific color. And I'm just going to set, okay, one of these. And then inside this, im going to say current. All right.

6:35:21
Now, after this, if we have a workspace, well, render out that workspace name. Okay, so in here were going to say workspace. If this exists, then were going to create a paragraph tag. Hello, please give me a paragraph. Thank you. And in here were going to set text to the same color. So let me remove This sucks, man. I should have fixed this guys. Really, really, sorry. Okay, I'm really, sorry.

6:35:44
Dont be mad at me, but this workspace is going to come from our API call, by the way, sorry, not API call, its going to come from the current workspace, which is right here. Oh, okay. I thought, were going to get this from one of the hooks. So what ILL do is down here, I'm going to say, const workspace equal to workspaces Where is this? Okay. Yeah, I dont think we can get it from here.

6:36:10
Exactly. Yeah. All right, guys. Its fine for now. Its fine. I'm just going to remove this. Remove this if condition, okay, were just going to return a paragraph tag. And in here were just going to return something called workspace. In here. Okay.

6:36:26
And next down here, I'm going to just say this video has no folder for now, because were going to need to look and see if we found the right folder ID based on the current folder. And, and thats going to come in from a hook. Okay, but, this is all we need to just get started. And then were going to bring in the separator component in here.

6:36:44
And the separator component is going to have orientation set to orizontal. And after this, were going to need a div with the following class name. So, this class name is going to be flex, d column. Okay, gap, D, Y5. And padding of five. Okay, also lets add border on this, so border of one pixel, and then were going to have rounded das xel. Okay. All right. Nice. Cool.

6:37:13
Now, inside this div were going to need to create an H2 element in here as well. And essentially, what were doing in here is, were showing where we can move this folder two. All right. And the two is going to have, like, right, after the two were going to have a select element, where the user can select the right folder. Thats pretty much it. So, create the H tag in here, say two.

6:37:34
And after this, we need to create a label element. Okay, so I'm going to import label from components UI label. And I'm going to add the following class names on this label as well. And inside this label, I'm going to essentially say, P workspace. Oops, sorry. I dont want to click on this workspace. And after this, we need to bring in our select elements. So, I'm going to say select element, right, like this.

6:38:00
And now were going to need the register and all this kind of stuff, right? So, for now, I'm just going to remove this. And, well, get to that in just a second. But in here, first thing is, I want to loop over a bunch of stuff. And I want to show options. But right now, of course, we dont have that. So, I'm just going to render an option.

6:38:16
And this option is essentially just going to have a value set to something like this. Okay. And were also going to need the, the workspace name itself. So, ILL, put that in here as well. All right. So, quick one heres what I'm going to do. So, I'm going to go back into my video card file right here. Okay. And, what im going to do is, first thing is I'm going to remove this Overflow hidden.

6:38:41
Or we dont even need to do that. I'm, just going to comment out, everything in here, right So comment this stuff. And after that, im going to place my change video location. So, at least we can see whats going on. All right, nice. Now, I can go into this component. And now I can pretty much continue. And you can also see whats going on. Okay. Okay.

6:39:02
So now that we understand what the layout is going to look like, we can go ahead and create that hook. And we can pretty much get all the values that we need. Okay, so were going to say const, and this is equal to use move videos. Okay. And this hook is going to be created inside our hooks folder. So its called use, move videos. So use move videos, typescript.

6:39:28
And were going to export, or actually we dont even need to do this. We can, we can probably create. All right, let me create a, a better naming structure for this. So in here, im going to say, use folders. Okay. And inside this, we can have whatever we want. All right. If you want that, or if you think its better to have individual hooks, thats fine as well. And in here, im going to say, export.

6:39:53
Const use. Move videos. This is going to be an arrow function. And this is going to need first the video ID, which is going to be a string. We need the current workspace, which is going to be a string as well. Thats pretty much the ID. Okay, so probably should rename that. But because my premium code, BAS is already having this, I dont want to create any errors here.

6:40:14
But inside this, I want to first get some state from the Redux store, right? So, essentially, what were doing here is, remember, I told you the reason why we want to use this is I want to show you how to use Redux as well, and how it can also be used interchangeably with, you know, the React query. But the power React query is far more than what Redux can do.

6:40:36
But, I'm, just showing you how you can use Redux in your application. Thats pretty much it. All right, so, nothing too complex here. So, first thing is, we need the app selector. Thats how we can extract the workspace and the folder data. Then, after that, were going to need to create some states, like fetching the folder, you know, fetching, pretty much something to hold some sort of API states, right? API response states.

6:40:59
And then I also change this to, say API response states or fetching states. It sounds better. The next thing is, were going to have a state for folders that we can store in here, because in here is where were going to determine which folder to move it under, right, and then next, were going to use our use mutation data. And this HOOK is going to pretty much help us create that optimistic change, right?

6:41:25
And then after that, were also going to use HOOK forms. So were going to be using ZOD forms, not HOOK forms, but pretty much same thing. So, the hook is actually called use ZOD forms, right? So were going to use this to essentially wire up our element. So, wire up our select element. So, use ZOD form. And after this, were going to need to fetch folders. So, this is where, well, use the fetching states.

6:41:52
So, once we fetch folders, well, set the state, do all that kind of stuff. And we can use a use effect to essentially do this, right? So, well, say fetch folders with a use effect. Okay. Okay.

6:42:03
And then once this is done, were going to grab, were going to, essentially, sorry, were going to listen to the workspace changes and then were going to return, like a cleanup function, and then were just going to return all of the data that is used for in our component, right Cuz. We need the folders, we need the workspaces We need any sort of fetching state, form stuff, all that kind of thing.

6:42:26
So, thats pretty much what this is going to help us do. So, first thing is, lets go ahead and wire up our Redux store. So, open up your folder, structure. You're going to scroll down here. So, just shrink everything, actually. Go to source. And down here, you're going to create another folder called Redux. And inside this, were going to create first the slices folder, and then were going to need our store. So, store.

6:42:50
Typescript, and I want to make sure this is under Redux folder. All right. Nice. And after this, we want to also create a provider. TSX. Okay, so, first thing is, were going to need Redux and Redux toolkit. So, open up, your terminal, were going to quit the terminal and were going to say bunad at redux. Js toolkit. Okay. And let that install. Awesome. And then were going to need BunAD. Reactredux. Okay.

6:43:19
Now, the first thing we need is our provider. So, inside our provider file, were going to say, use client. Okay, going to shrink this sidebar. And first thing is export const redux provider provide. Okay, equal to an arrow function. And this is going to give us access to children. And these children are essentially going to be react. React node. Okay. So, lets grab that as well.

6:43:46
And inside here, were going to return the provider that comes from. React. Where is this? Okay, it comes from. React. Redux. So, let me just manually install it first. And then I can invoke it. Okay, and our provider is going to first have a store. And now were going to pass in a store, which we need to create. And, but in here first, let me just render out the children components.

6:44:10
So, how do you create a store Lets go in here. I'm not going to, I'm not going. This is not a, like, you know, a Redux course or something. But I'm, just going to show you, right. A store is essentially, think about it as one object to store all the data. Thats pretty much it. And that data gets passed through the provider state into all your components.

6:44:26
Okay, if you want to use React Context API or something else, zeus, sand, whatever you want. No problem. I like Redux, because we use this in production grade applications as well. Okay. So, first thing is, this is going to be a use client component. Let me make sure my provider is used, client as well. All right. Awesome. And first thing is, I need to create a root reducer.

6:44:48
All our reducers are going to go inside this one object. So, const root reducer is equal to combine reducers. Oh, its not letting me import that. Okay. Well, ILL just get, it Might as well do it, right? So, were going to get combined R reducers and configure store. These are the two things that were going to need. So, I'm, just going to import that. And I'm going to say combine reducers. I'm going to invoke this.

6:45:10
And I'm going to pass in the reducers that we need. Okay. But, of course, we dont have the reducers right now. So, well, create them in just a second. But, the next thing we want to do in here is, I'm going to create the store itself. So, export const store equal store, equal configure store. Were going to invoke this. And our reducer is going to be our root reducer.

6:45:34
So, reducer is going to be root reducer and were going to need to pass in a middleware file. Okay. And the, the middleware that were going to do in here is, let me go ahead and also rename this. Okay. Middleware. Nice. And this is going to actually give us access to something called get default middleware. Okay. So were going to get this and were going to invoke it here.

6:45:58
And inside this, were going to pass in an object called serializable, check and pass it to false. All right. Now, after this, we want to export our root app, state, the dispatch function, and our app selector. So, we can get access to all of this. Okay, so first thing is export type. So, these are also types as well, right? We will create the use app selector after these types.

6:46:22
So, first one is root state equal to return type of type of storeget state. Right? And then we need to export type, app state. Sorry, guys, app, dispatch. And this is equal to type of store dispatch. Okay. So we can use these types whenever we need. And now, the app selector, the use app selector, is essentially going to have type definitions already added to it. Okay, were going to show you how to do that.

6:46:52
But this app selector is going to give us access to the Redux store data. Okay, so. Export const use app selector. And in here were going to say type used, use selector. Hook. And this is going to be root state. Why is it not giving it to me Root state like this? And this is equal to use selector. Okay, use select. Okay, thank God. It gave it to me. Nice. All right. Dont invoke it.

6:47:19
Sorry about that. Do not invoke. Okay, so, were just wiring this up with the new root state that we have. So, it knows the data that we get from this. And we can basically get type intellisense for our redux story now. Lets go ahead and create reducers for our store. Okay, so, inside slices, you're going to create two for now. First one is folders, right?

6:47:41
Because were working with folders, typescript, and then also, workspaces do Typescript. And inside the folders were essentially going to do the following. So, the first thing is, we need a type for the initial state of our folders. So, I'm, just going to create a type here. Were going to have the folders itself, which is an array, right? And its going to also extend and have, count on top of that.

6:48:03
So, folders is going to have count with videos and which is a number and the name of the folder, the ID created at workspace ID as well. And this is going to be an array, right? And then we have to create the initial state itself. So, initial state is going to be initial state props. And this is equal to an object. And in here, we need to give it the values.

6:48:28
Or its going to scream at us. Right, so, we going to say, this is going to be a folder. Then, we need the folder. Slice. So, were going to say const export const folders equal. Create Slice, were going to invoke this and were going to pass in the slice name. So, its going to be folders. Okay.

6:48:43
And then next we need the initial state, which is going to be our initial state that we just grabbed from above. So, we dont even need to do anything. Dont need to provide two. Just have to provide the key right next reducers. And for now, we only have one reducer, which is folders. Now, this naming convention is not the best, but I just want to show you how things work, right Thats pretty much it.

6:49:07
So, you can have different type of different type of reducer names. So, for example, get folders, add folders, delete, folders, all these kind of actions. And this is how its done in production grade code. Okay. So, in here, first thing is we need state and then action, which is payload. Action, lets invoke that. And we want to pass in our initial state props. Okay, now, and now, what is this going to return?

6:49:34
Well, its going to return everything Thats inside action. Payload. Okay. And now, down here, so essentially, its like a way to get the folders that are inside. Okay, inside our Redux store. And now, down here, we need to export, export. Sorry, guys. We need to export const, the folders were going to destructure this from folders. Action. Why is this not showing? Okay, first, lets rename this to folders, folders, actions.

6:50:01
Okay, so lets grab the folder action in here, and down here were going to also export defaults and were going to export the folders reducer. Okay, nice. Now lets go. And also create the workspace reducer or Slice might as well do it. And again, were going to need the initial state props, which is workspaces its an array were going to have type, name, and ID, personal or public, right?

6:50:27
Then we need to create the initial state. So this is the initial state right here, which is works, spaces, set to an empty array. Then we need the workspaces the slice itself. So workspaces equal to create slice. And the name is workspaces initial state is this one. And the reducers is workspaces right here. And this is going to give us everything thats inside action payload. Okay, so were going to return all of that.

6:50:54
And, down here, we need to extract our actions. So we can dispatch it from somewhere else. And then we also need to get our reducer itself. So, now lets go back to our provider. Sorry, not provider. Okay, actually, we also have to go back to our provider, because we need to pass in our store, right? So, lets pass in the store. And then inside the store itself, we need to bring in.

6:51:16
These two, provide these two reducers that we just created. So, in here, I'm going to say folder reducer. Okay, its not giving the type, intellisense folder. Okay, let me just manually install it. Okay. So, folder reducer like this from slices, folders. And then we also need the workspace reducers from slices. Workspace. So lets grab that as well, and also put the name in here, folder reducer and workspace reducer done.

6:51:44
I know that was a lot of setup. But the reason why this is done is, well, there is a reason by why, you know, redux has its very opinionated, right? So, the first thing is, you get a lot of benefit when its used in the production, in production grade applications. For example, you can test, you can debug, you can use it to mock data. You can do the same thing. I mean, part of it.

6:52:07
You can do it with React context, API. But with Redux, its better, because you can combine stuff, like middleware. You can use stuns. You can do a bunch of cool stuff with Redux. Okay. And my favorite part of Redux is Redux dev tools, because you can see each and every action, what the state was, before the action was performed, and after you can also change the state in the, you know, in inside the dev tools.

6:52:33
So, you can see what it does to the browser, you can see what it does to your application. And pretty much whatever you want, right, you can also mock and fire actions using the dev tools. Okay, now were not going to do all of that in this video, or, well, be here, till the, end of 2030 And I will grow old.

6:52:50
So, I just want to give you a heads up as to why we have to do so much setup for Redux. Okay, zand is much simple, much simpler. And if you like that, you can go for it, but, you will probably never find a production grade project using ZoaN just because its a little newer. And I dont know why people dont, like it. I honestly love it, right?

6:53:12
But, I see most of my projects use Redux. All right. Cool. Lets move on now. All right. So, now that we have our Redux store set up, lets go back to our hook, which is the, the ED folders. And I'm going to also, first, just change this name to use folders, typescript. And inside this, we can ascend, entally, initiate the process, all the processes that we just spoke about.

6:53:36
Okay, so first, lets get our app state, which is our app selector. So, const data equal to use app selector. Were going to invoke this. And now, were going to get a callback function thats going to give us access to the state and were going to return statethe folder reducer. So, in here, were going to get the folders.

6:53:55
All right, next, were going to do the same thing for workspaces So, I'm going to go in here, and I'm going to get the work workspaces reducer from this. And next, I need to create the fetching state. So, I'm going to say const is fetching and set is fetching. And next, im going to set this equal to use state. Im going to invoke this. And I'm going to set false in here.

6:54:18
Okay, and now, I need a, a state to also hold my folders. So, I'm going to change this to folders, actually, not folders, is folders. Okay. Is folders, and set is folders as well. Okay. And this is going to be the following data type. So right here, I'm going to open this in here, first type a pipe.

6:54:38
And then inside this, I'm going to say, underscore count, this is going to be an object with videos set to number. Okay, and after this were going to need to extend, expand on this. So, im going to say, and, or maybe hm, right? Let me, I need to first put this inside a just syntax stuff. So I have to put this inside a bracket.

6:55:03
And then im going to need to also put a pipe before this, because we have a state after that, right? Undefined state. So, after this curly bracket, I'm going to expand on this. And im going to say, ID is going to be set to a string name, is going to be set to a string created at, going to be created at, is going to be set to a date. And then workspace.

6:55:27
Let me also remove all of this. And then workspace, ID, ID or work space. ID is going to be set to a string or null. And then after this down here, I'm going to set this to an array. And I'm going to say, or undefined. Okay, now, were going to have errors here. So, im going to quickly solve these errors. LETS see what the error here is. Okay.

6:55:51
So, I'm, just going to ask AI to fix it for me. All right, please just apply this change. All right. Thank you. Lets accept it. All right. Let me also just quickly read, what do we have in here? Okay, so we have count, videos. And this should be number. And then we have And ID name created at V, workspace, ID, string. Null.

6:56:15
This is an array of these folders, or it can be undefined and were just going to set undefined. Okay, nice. Next, I'm going to say const some data equal to use mutation data. I'm going to invoke this. And first, im going to grab our mutation, our mutate function, and the is pending. Okay. And im also going to bring this down here under this comment.

6:56:39
And next, I need to pass in my key, right, my query key. So, the key in here, or the mutation key, is going to be called change video location. And next, I'm going to pass in an arrow function, which is going to give me access to the data. So, in here, I'm going to get data. And I'm going to extract the folder, undor ID, which is a string from this.

6:57:03
And I'm also going to need the workspace ID, which is going to be a string as well. All right. And in here, I'm going to call my move video location, server action. And inside that, I'm going to pass in all this data. So, lets go into our actions folder. And I'm going to look for workspace, going to scroll to the bottom. And I'm going to say, const or export const. Move video location.

6:57:29
And this is going to need first the video ID, workspace ID and the folder ID, which are all strings. Okay, so please pause and type. And after this, im going to have a tri catch block in here. And the first thing is, were going to go into the database and were going to get that video. Okay, and after we get it, were going to update the information. So we can use the client video update method.

6:57:54
Okay, so you're going to say location equal to await. And first, dont forget to change this to an async function. Await, client video update for this video ID, we want to update the data and set its folder ID to the following. Or set it to null. Okay. And, for workspace, ID. Well, just keep it the same. So, im going to remove this and just keep it like this. Okay. What seems to be the.

6:58:16
All right, never mind. So I can change it like this, and then remove this. Okay. And then after this were going to say, if everything was successful, return to 100 and say folder changed successfully. If nothing happened, some sort of error took place. And also you want to move this or okay, this is fine. Never mind, sorry, guys. And after this, if this was not successful, just return a 404 and just show the error. Right?

6:58:41
And say, workspace was not found, or the folder was not found. And then if a error happened on the server side, well, return 500. Say, oops, something went wrong. Cool. All right. So, lets go back and then lets import this move video location, server action. And also, we need to return the server action. Right? So, in here, I'm going to return the server action. And im going to pass in all the values that it needs.

6:59:07
So, first, we need the video ID. And next, we need the data workspace ID. So, right here, we have workspace ID. So, lets pass that in. And then data folder, ID. Okay, so, just pass these into the server action. Next, were going to need use form to essentially set up this form in here. So, down inside this comment, I'm going to say const equal to use ZOD form. And im going to invoke that.

6:59:37
Why does it keep saving this file? Okay, and then im going to get the errors on submit. I'm going to get register and reset. Or actually, we dont need this. I'm going to get onsubmit errors. I need watch. I also need register. And I think this should be good to go. So, watch errors register. And on form, submit. Okay. And now in here, first, I need to pass in the server action.

7:00:04
Sorry, guys, I need to pass in the schema. So, lets go ahead and create a schema inside this file. So, in here, you're going to find where do I have this change Video location under components, forms. Okay, right in here, under schema, I'm going to say the following. So, I'm going to say Z object folder, ID is a string, which is optional. And workspace ID is a string as well.

7:00:27
Okay, so, I'm going to go back and I'm going to grab my schema, move video, schema. Okay, nice. And the next parameter is the mutate function. So, lets pass it in as well. So, we want to say, mutate. Nice. And im going to remove this. Okay. Mutate. And finally, I need to pass in an object in here. And you can also hover over this, right.

7:00:51
And you can see what, what essentially we need to pass in. So, schema mutation, and any default values. So, the default values that im going to pass in is the folder ID, and the workspace ID. Okay, so, lets pass it in there. And that will automatically populate the form elements. Okay, next thing we need, right, after this is fetching the folders, and we need the use effect stuff, right?

7:01:14
So, down here, im going to say, const, fetch folders equal to async arrow function. And I need the workspace, which is going to be a string in here. And inside this, I'm going to set is fetching first to true. Okay. And then I want to say const folders equal to await. Get workspace folders were going to invoke this and pass in our workspace, inside it, which is essentially the workspace ID, right?

7:01:43
And then we want to set the worksspace set is fetching back to false. And then we also want to set is folders to those folders that we got. So, folder, data, okay, this one right here, folders, data. Nice. Now, after this, we need to do the use effect, right? The use effect is, is going to help us fetch these folders, so, I'm going to say use effect. Okay. I'm going to pass it an empty dependency.

7:02:08
And upon mount, I'm going to fetch the folders and pass in the current workspace. All right, nice. Then I'm going to have another use effect. And this use effect is essentially going to watch for the changes. And every time a change occurred, we want to also fetch the folders one more time, right? So, heres, all. Im going to do. Im going to say use effect. Let me just copy this, use effect down below.

7:02:33
And in here, im going to remove this. And I need to pass in. Watch As a dependency. Cuz. Im using it. So, I'm going to say workspace equal. Watch. Okay. I'm going to invoke this. And this will take in an arrow function. And in here, I'm going to pass in async. And first thing is, if values, sorry, the value comes in from here, right?

7:02:54
So, if the value that changed has the workspace ID, then we want to fetch the folders one more time. And im going to pass in the value. Workspace ID inside this. Okay, awesome. Now, also, we need a cleanup here, because this is a subscribe subscription. So, were going to say, return workspace, do unsubscribe. Okay, nice. And now, finally, we have to return all of the stuff that we just created.

7:03:20
So, please type with me, or actually, im not going to type this. Its going to take too long. So, I'm, just going to return the on form. Submit errors. Register is pending. The folders workspaces is fetching and is folders as well. Okay, awesome. Now, lets go back. And first thing is, I see use, move videos, screaming at me. So, im going to go into my videos video card. And first, I'm going to import this. Okay.

7:03:47
All right, this is thatS imported. I'm going to import the use move videos as well, which is inside the change video location. Now, it says, could not find react Redux context value. Well, the reason is because we did not wrap our entire application inside this Redux provider, right? So, lets go into source, go into app, and you want to go into layout.

7:04:09
And inside this component right here, were going to need to wrap this inside our Redux provider. So, down here, I'm going to say, redux provider, and im going to move our query provider inside that. Okay, now, we should have all the states. Awesome. Cool. So, lets go back and make sure we imported this. Okay, nice. And now, first thing is it need needs the video ID.

7:04:32
So, I'm going to pass in the video ID, and it also needs the current workspace. Okay. All right, nice. What seems to be the arrow here. Okay, lets just put this exclamation at the end. I think this should solve the problem. All right, nice. And now in here, what were going to do is, were essentially going to destructure all of the values that were returning back from this hook.

7:04:51
Okay, so were going to get register were going to get pending pretty much every single thing. So, just destructure. Everything which is on form. Submit, folders, workspace is fetching and is folders, and down here. Now, were going to filter for the current folder. Okay, I'm going to say folder equal folders. Find where the, this folder ID is equal to the current folder ID.

7:05:11
Okay, essentially were just trying to get the information of the folder itself, and the information of the workpace itself. Okay, so, I'm going to say, workspace equal workspaces doind where f ID equal to current workspace. Okay, just like this. Nice. And now, well, have access to those values. So, first thing down here is inside this current, we have something here called workspace, right? Just remove this. Okay, just cut it out.

7:05:40
And were going to say, workspace. If this exists, then were going to return this P tag, okay. And inside this p tag, were going to render the workspace, do name. And next to that were going to say, workspace, just like this. So, let me go ahead and refresh the browser and just see what happens. Okay, so nothing is being provided. And the reason is, because were not passing any props into this component.

7:06:04
So, im going to go back here. And if I uncomment, this lets see what happens. Okay, its because we havent, we havent got all these values yet, right? So, lets go ahead and pass these props into this component first. So, in here, I'm just going to rename all of this using these props. Okay, because theyre already being passed in. I believe. Let me see. Okay, we have our dashboard, workspace. Okay.

7:06:30
So, inside here, we have some video information thats being passed in, but its kind of hardcoded right now, of course. But this should technically do the job, right? So, lets just go ahead and rename this to the following. So, what seems to be the error here. Okay, I dont know what the error was. Current. Workspace is, props. Workspace ID, does it exist? Yes, it does. And its saying the current HM.

7:06:57
Let me go in here and take a look at the types. All right, sorry, guys, it was just a spelling error. Turns out this one is case sensitive, right? So, I just had to change that real quick. So, hopefully you found it and you fixed it as well, but that was the only mistake. All right, guys. So, its getting a little challenging to use mock data.

7:07:15
Because the first thing is, the ID is not real, right? The folder, ID, the name, and all these kind of things. They just dont make sense, because its not real data, right? And everything is a dependent, and it has, you know, foreign keys and stuff like that. So, its better for us to just use real data. And its sucks that I never thought about this in the beginning itself.

7:07:34
But essentially, you can use Prisma Studio and create entries directly in here as well. So, for example, first thing you want to do is, say, BUN, X, prisma Studio. And if you hit enter, its going to open up this command, right, its going to open up local host, 5555. All right, and then you can open that in here. And its going to show you your entire table.

7:07:57
So, you can essentially communicate with the database directly through this Pres studio. Okay, so were going to click on videos in here. And its going to open up for you. You're, not going to have anything actually. For me, I have something because I just created a new entry, but im going to show you what you need to do. Okay, so click on, add record, and then first, this is autogenerated.

7:08:18
So you can skip over that, skip over everything. Just scroll to folder, click on folder, and then you can click on whatever folder you want. I'm, just using whatever folder you want. I'm, just using productes University. And then for folder ID, you can skip over it, cuz, its, its just going to auto connect for user, go ahead and click on user as well. And then you should technically only have one user.

7:08:41
So you can click on this, check it, right? And let me do it for this one as well. Okay, nice. And then in here, for workspace, im going to select another workspace, right. The only workspace, I have, and the ID will also automates. And thats pretty much it. And then the next thing is for the description, or the title, im going to change this to something else, right?

7:09:04
So this is untitled video for this one, I'm just going to change it to second video, just to see what happens, right? And then you save the change that you just made. Okay, looks like theres some error in here. Let me just refresh. Okay, and okay, so it looks like there is some problem. Let me quickly fix this. Okay, so it looked like something was wrong with the date module not found. HM. Interesting.

7:09:30
Let me close this and disc scar the change. And let me do that once more. Okay, so im going to go back into videos and just give me a second. Let me pause this and do it off screen, and then ILL show you. Okay. Okay, so im not entirely sure why thats going on. Let me look at my prisma schema, to make sure that I can have multiple videos. So, okay, we have media.

7:09:52
In here, we have a workspace, we have folders, and we have multiple videos. Okay, this looks fine. And for a video, the title does not have to be unique default, is set to this. Okay, cool. And then whats the other problem here? Okay. So, im not sure why its not creating it for me, but I already created one entry. So, I'm just going to use this. Okay.

7:10:15
So, you should be able to create one entry in here. And, you can now connect it pretty much fetch data directly from here. Okay. So, thats going to save us a ton of time. So, let me go back real quick to our component. And now, im going to remove this. So, it causes errors in my application. And then I can fix it where I need to. So, first thing is down here.

7:10:33
Im going to remove this, right? And, lets also remove the video itself. And im going to push the video card into this map function. And in here, all im going to do first, is up top, just make sure the success status is the video, status is not 200. And if so, im going to return PF5 and return the same class name.

7:10:57
And down here, if video is equal to, 200 were going to map over them and return a video card. Okay, so lets go back to local host and lets refresh. Okay, so were going to say BUN, runeV and lets refresh the browser. Okay, and the other thing we need to provide in here is the key. So, im going to say video. Do ID. And thats, that should be good to go for key and for paragraph.

7:11:20
No, videos in workspace. Okay, this is good to go. So, were already returning a video in here, because a video does exist. All right. So, now lets go back into the card. And we can pretty much just sort of wire this up. So, its not so messy, right? So, lets go ahead and do this. So, the first thing is, I'm going to get a formula. Thats going to help me get the upload days ago, right?

7:11:42
I dont know how else to call it, but its essentially math floor. And inside that were going to pass in a new date, get time. And for this, were going to subtract the created at date and time, right? And then were going to divide it by 24 into 60 into 60 into 1000. And thats going to give us how many days ago it was uploaded.

7:12:02
Okay, then next down here for the state, were going to change this to state processing. So, props, do processing and were going to need some class names on this loader as well. So, ILL pass that in right now. So, its going to say, BG, this color, flex. Justify center item, center border. 1 pixel and border, 25,25.25, and border Excel. So, if I refresh this, it looks like something is happening here.

7:12:30
And thats probably because processing is set to true, right? Because the default value of processing is, is false is true. So, thats why. Let me see if I can show. All right. There you go. So, its set to true. So, im going to change it to false and save this change. Now, if I go back to Opal. And if I refresh, well, im going to see this data here, because I made a change.

7:12:51
And our cache data is not changed. So, let me just give that a second. Okay, awesome. And now, it will render out the elements inside. Okay, okay, cool. So, now we have this part. So, im going to remove this change. Video location, cuz, we no longer need it. And im going to uncomment this. And inside this component, were going to render out the same thing. But we have a Overflow hidden.

7:13:14
And this Overflow hidden, apparently is hiding this model. But this is pretty much what the model looks like, right? And were going to show all the values directly in here as well. And well, set that up just to make sure its rendering correctly. But, thats pretty much it, right? We just have an element that shows just like this inside a modal. Okay, so im going to bring back this overflow hidden.

7:13:35
And right after this, im going to create a copy link component. Its relatively simple, but this is going to have two props. I'm just going to pass it in for now. And this is going to look like this. So its going to say, Bg hover background. Transparent height of five, padding of zero. Okay. And we also need to pass in the video ID. So im going to say video ID like this.

7:13:58
And this is equal to props. Do ID. Okay. And essentially, when you click on this icon, its just going to save it to the clipboard. Okay, so open up your folder structure. And in here, you can create a link dot or copy link, copy link. Tsx file. And im going to return a template and change this title. And this is going to need first the video ID.

7:14:21
So, im going to get the video ID and the class name as well. And for this, we can also have variance, because essentially this is a button, right So I can bring in variant. So we have default, destructive, outline, secondary, ghost, and link. And this is coming from Shaten. So, thats why im providing them right here. And then go ahead and destructure these. Okay, nice. And next were going to have the button here.

7:14:48
So, first, let me import it. So I dont see any errors. So, copy link, bring that in. And now, down here, im going to return a button component. And inside this button component, I'm going to show the link element that comes from lucid. React. Okay. And lets just give that a second. Okay, so I returned the wrong button. This button comes from our components folder, not from React. Day. Picker. Okay.

7:15:14
And inside this link, I'm going to have the following props. So, were going to have the size and the class name. So, the size is going to be 20. And for class name, were going to have the text set to the following color. Okay. Then the other props that need to be passed into the button are the variant. So, I'm going to say variant, like this equal to variant.

7:15:35
And next, I need onclick, which were going to create in just a second. But im going to just say onclick like this, and set it to an empty value. And then the class name is going to be set to the class name that was passed in. Now, for the onclick, all were going to do in here is first, this needs to change to a client component. Actually, HM, I think it should be fine.

7:15:58
But, here were going to say const on copy. Clipboard equal to an arrow function. And this is going to do. Navigator. Docboard. Do write text. You're going to invoke that. And you're going to dynamically pass in a string. Okay. Now, this is going to come in from our environment variables. But for now, its going to look like this. Okay. Process environment, next public host. URL. And slash pre preview and slash the video ID.

7:16:30
So, well, eventually create that, right, that route. And that time, this will work, but lets also go into our environment file. And first, im going to copy this here. So you can, you probably will also have this, but im going to copy this and go into my environment. And im going to paste this value in here. Okay. All right. Just like that. And now I can set this to the to that public host variable.

7:16:55
So, lets go back, because, of course, we dont have it, right, so, lets go back, lets go in here, and lets see whats the issue. Okay, lets grab this onclick handler, and lets pass it in here. Finally, im also going to show a toast message, saying copied, and were just going to return toast that comes from use. Toast were going to pass in copied. And down here, im going to pass in description.

7:17:18
And im going to have a link saying, I'm going to have a message saying, link successfully copied. Okay, lets use sonar for this. That might be better. So, lets import sonar. Okay, thats actually going to work for our syntax. And im going to go back and just make sure this works. Im going to remove this overflow hidden. And if I click on, this lets see what happens. Absolutely nothing happens, which is great.

7:17:43
Okay, let me fix this guys. Okay, so it is working. But for some reason, my toast message is not showing. And I think, I know the reason why if you scroll down and go into your root file, which is under layout. TSX, I think we also need to show the toast in here, right? We have to have some sort of a provider or a component. I think thats how Shatan wants us to do that.

7:18:08
So, let me go ahead and get that for us. So, right in here, im going to say toaster like this. And im going to import it from sonar. And, okay, no more errors. Let me refresh the page. And when I click on it, now, I can see that show up. Okay, okay. So lets go back here. And now, after this copy link element were going to have another link component.

7:18:30
Okay, and this link component is going to render out a, a video. And its also going to have, like, pretty much a, the source, which is like a thumbnail, right? Were going to render a thumbnail in. There were going to have an H2, just like this, right? Well, have title, well, have avatar image, and all this kind of info. So, lets go ahead and build that out.

7:18:50
So, right, after the first div, im going to say link, and I'm going to import this link from the next link, were going to have the href, which is going to be preview, of course, and were going to pass in the props, doid and then were going to have a class name. Please pause and type this class name. And inside this link were going to have the video elements.

7:19:11
So lets go ahead and say video like this. Okay, video elements. And this is going to have a closing tag as well. And in here, we have to say controls false. So, we have nothing inside, right? Preload is going to be set to metadata. Class name is going to be with.

7:19:27
Full aspect, video opacity 50, z of 20. Okay, and now, for source, were not going to have all this, right now, were just going to put it for now. All right, but if you dont see anything, its fine. Dont worry about it. Its, just for just to have a layout. And now, when you hover over this, you're going to notice the borders change to sharp borders, right?

7:19:48
The reason is, because this entire container does not have Overflow hidden. Thats why. So, now we can bring back that. Overflow hidden. So, it makes more sense. Okay, there we go. Next, after this video, I'm going to create a div tag. So im going to say div and give it the following class names. So padding, x of five, padding, y of three, flex column.

7:20:09
And then we need gap of y of two z of 20. And inside this, were going to create an H2 tag. And the class name is going to be text, small font. Boldt so semi, boldt text dash. And im going to add the following style. And after this inside the H2, im going to say props. Do tile. Okay, so we can render that out in here. And I also think theres something wrong with this.

7:20:39
Let me go into the click link, the copy link. And let me see what problem we have in here. Okay, so for variant, maybe we could pass in. Let me see. So, for variant, what if we pass in ghost? Okay, that looks so much better. Okay, so the first thing is the variant, removes the background, but I also want to change the icon itself. So, im using the links icon that comes from our components folder.

7:21:07
Okay, not the lucid react one, cuz. I just feel this looks so much better. It just its a little too light. And I might want to get this color instead. So, let me see if I can grab this one. So, what do we have in here? Foundation Gray. Let me grab this. Okay, and let me go into this component and see if I can change it. Okay, so, so we have its the same color. HM.

7:21:32
Why does it feel so light? Okay, let me grab this one, the foundation 600. And ILL, change the background and see if that changes. So, well, set this to. Let me go back real quick. And in here, the BG is going to be a color. And I'm going to just put this color in here. Lets just see what that does. Okay, of course, it just completely transformed.

7:21:55
I dont really know what the hell is going on here. Let me fix, guys, give me a second. Okay, so for some reason, the colors that are in Figma. And the colors that are in here dont really match up, even though theyre the exact same thing. Sometimes this can happen U. So, I'm just going to go down here. And I'm going to change these colors. Okay.

7:22:17
So, if you hover over the fill, or if you add a class name, I think we can see G and set this to a custom color. Okay, so we can see it from here itself. So, I'm just going to increase this color. Remove this and add it in here. Okay, and lets see what this does. Okay, thats so much better. So, ILL change this in here as well.

7:22:39
And if you're noticing your, your inspect element, sorry, your console is blowing up with the fill rule and the clip rule. Thats because this needs to be changed to clip rule. Okay, but I'm just going to keep it like this for now. Cuz, im not really bothered about it, but thats pretty much it. And the other thing is this move icon, right? Might want to have a slightly better icon for that one as well.

7:23:02
So, let me go ahead and fix that. All right, so I just made a couple changes. And I just want to walk you through what I did. So, the first thing is, I added group out here, right? Im, sorry, on this element. That way inside this one, I can say group hover flex. But by default be hidden. So, having this shown by default just looks really weird and odd.

7:23:24
So, thats why im hiding it, when, were not essentially hovering over them. And thats how, how the Figma mockups are also made, right? So, thats why I'm going to keep them pretty much hidden. And then once I hover ILL, show them. Okay, then the next thing is inside the copy link, I change the color for the button. And thats right here. So, I change the color to BG, and I set it to this one.

7:23:48
Then, inside the card menu, I chang, the move color to the following fill, and the text. So, that way, it has a slightly different, lighter color, right Cuz were going for that low contrast design, right? So you can add that one as well, if you like this. And I think this one looks so much better.

7:24:05
And for the variant, I also changed the variant of the copy link, I removed it, you know, completely, because I did not like the other design as well. Okay. Okay. Now, after this, you're going to create another div. And you're going to give it the following class name. And I, it looks like im making too many spelling errors guys when I type, and I really hate it, cuz, it gets me like, you know, going crazy.

7:24:29
Cuz, I dont know where stuff is coming from. So, im going to copy paste the class names from now on. Okay, that way you can just pause and type saves me time, and the video is going to be hours shorter. Okay. So, flex gap, X2, items of center and inside this were going to use the Avatar icon. Okay. And if you have seen Chaden in the past, its very simple.

7:24:49
Its just the avatar, avatar image and a fallback. Okay, so lets go ahead and bring in the avatar image component. We need the avatar itself. Make sure you import everything from the, the right folder. Okay. Which is components. UI. And for user, I'm also going to import the lucid react icon. All right. Nice. Look at that. Looks awesome.

7:25:10
Now, on the avatar, you can add a class name and were going to give it, give it margin, top of four. Okay, so it has a little more space, or even two is fine. You dont need too much. Okay, not too bad. And maybe we can set some width and height on this, so, width and height. I'm going to set it to eight. And that should be good to go.

7:25:30
Now, after the avatar down here were going to create another div. And inside this, were going to create a paragraph tag. And this is going to have the following class names. So, im going to say class name, capitalize text, text, small and inside this were going to put the users first name and their last name as well. So, im going to say props, do user first name, and props. Do user last name. Okay.

7:25:52
Just like this. And maybe you can change this to EXS. We dont need such a huge name, right? And you can also change the font color, make it a little bit darker if it will change today. Okay, awesome. All right. Then, after that, were going to also need to show the days, right, when this video was created. So, below this paragraph, create another paragraph with the following text and were going to say text exs.

7:26:19
And if the days is zero, were going to say today, if not, were going to show the number of days, okay, so 24 days ago, whatever were pretty much just going to render that in here. Also, one more quick fix, guys were going to go in here to margin top six on the avatar and were going to remove that and were going to set it on this div itself.

7:26:37
Okay, and in here, sorry, it was margin, top two for you. And I'm just going to change it to margin, top of four. Okay. That looks like a decent amount of spacing. And, yep. All right. So thats it. And lets scroll down here. And next, I added a dot icon and I added flex items, center. Okay, and it shows today in here.

7:27:00
And if it was created another day, well, essentially show, you know, how many days from today, thats pretty much it. Now, after this div, two divs down below were going to create another one. And inside this were going to create a span tag and lets give it flex. Also, let me copy, I dont want to make any spelling errors. Flex gap, x of one, we need fill and items of cent, item center.

7:27:22
Okay, then were going to show a little share icon. And this is called share to, from lucid React, and were going to give it the following style. Okay, fill class name and size of 12. And for this, we can also give it a class name, margin, top of two, or four, if you want to make it more uniform. And I think that one looks slightly better, actually. Okay, awesome.

7:27:46
And after this, we need to show who essentially, I mean, which workspace, it was shared from, you see, it shows a name, right? So were going to need to create a name in here. So were going to create a paragraph tag, right, after the share icon with the following in class name and were going to say props. Do user, firstname, apostrophe s workspace. Okay, not workplace, workspace.

7:28:07
And im also going to remove the text that I have on the on, on this name right here. And im going to add that same class name to the days. Okay. And im going to copy this from the title, whichever I have right here, which is right here, copy that. I'm want to scroll down below, and im going to put it in this name. So, they both look alike. All right. Awesome.

7:28:31
So, now, if I go back to my library, file and library routes, and if I take a look at this, it should show one video inside this folder. And when I click on this folder, its going to instantly take me into that folder. And its also going to show me the video itself, right in here. And also went ahead and changed the title to see what it looks like.

7:28:51
If the title was longer and it looks great. Okay, awesome, guys. Now lets quickly go back to our, my library route, which is in here. So, my library, where are you? Hello. Okay, page. Tsx. And if you scroll down here, we have our folders, right? We also need to render out some videos in this file. But I would like for you to take this up as a challenge.

7:29:15
I just showed you how to create files in here, right? How to create videos, and pretty much how to render them inside a folder. Right? Now, the challenge here is that you're going to need to render out videos inside the library itself.

7:29:32
So you can loop over, you know, all the work, all the videos that you get, or you can just pick the first couple videos that the user created, and you can render them out in here. Okay, so ID, like for you to take that up as a challenge, and complete that section.

7:29:46
But im going to move on into the next stages, which is to get this video stuff up and running, did a quick search like this, to check for any work in progress flags. And we have a bunch of stuff to do. So, lets just quickly clear that up. The first one is moving the folder, right? So, moving the video into a different folder. So, we want to try to see if this works.

7:30:10
And right now, we dont have anything set up. So, lets just quickly go ahead and set that up. So, the first thing is, if you try to go into the, use the use, move videos, hook, youll notice that we are using the state right here, which is Redux state. But, of course, we arent, setting anything inside the data, right?

7:30:32
Inside the state itself, we have only configured the Redux state, but we havent sent or dispatched any actions along with the data into our store. So, first, we need to do that in order to use this data inside our applica. Inside this hook. And that way, we can get all of the folders along with the workspaces So, that was the problem right here. Okay, thats why we werent seeing anything.

7:30:57
So, of course, we have to go ahead and do that. So, lets go ahead and do that first. So, first, go into sidebar into index. TSX. And you're going to scroll down here. And the reason why we need to go into this file is, were fetching the workspaces already inside this place, right? So, when we get the data, we want to store that inside our Redux store.

7:31:15
So were going to say, if is fetched, okay, and if workspace exists, then were going to dispatch. So, to get dispatch, we also have to use a hook here. So, lets scroll up top, and you're going to say const dispatch, equal use dispatch, right? And if you invoke this, now, you can pretty much use this. And this, of course, comes from react redux. So, once we get this, we can invoke dispatch.

7:31:45
And now we have to fire an action. Okay, dispatch an action to our store. And the action that we need is workspaces right here. Were going to invoke this and were going to pass in the workspaces and were going to set it to workspace, workspace. Okay, just like this. And all right, lets see whats going on. Cool.

7:32:05
So, now that we have stored the work spaces, the next one is we also have to dispatch all of the folders. So, lets go ahead and do that as well. So, open up your folder structure. And you want to scroll down into folders, click on the index, TSX. And if you scroll up top, you see we have a work in progress flag, right? So, lets remove this.

7:32:26
And first thing we want to do is get, get our dispatch function. So, const dispatch, equal to use dispatch. And now, down here, we can say, if is fetched, and we have folders, then were going to dispatch the following action. So, were going to say folders were going to invoke it. And the folders that were going to pass in is going to be our folders data. Okay, awesome.

7:32:57
So, now, when you click this M, move icon, you're going to see, were going to get data that comes from our state, right, from a Redux store. And that redux store, data is essentially just getting populated in here. Thats pretty much it. So, now, im going to go into the change video location form. And, okay, we still have some stuff to do in here as well. And, I think we also have a component.

7:33:20
Let me go ahead and find Fig. I mean, figure out the component where it is first. Okay, so inside the video card, we have card, menu. Okay, and then we have something called change video location. All right, now we can go through this component. So, this is inside our change video location, form. And inside this, lets just quickly complete this component as well. So, I just quickly made some changes here.

7:33:44
First is I changed the H2 to current workspaces then I remove the word workspaces itself. So, that way, it doesnt just spam and show, you know, em manuals, workspaces sl workspace is just too much. All right. And what I did is I removed the margin, top, and I just kept it as current workspaces. And below that, we can see the workspace itself. And then in here, im going to remove this.

7:34:08
So we can see the, what do you call this? All right, let me also change this one here. Okay, so I just removed the text size. And now we can see the current folder, right? So, I created another H2, same exact stuff here, but I added margin top, and I said current folder. And I said, now I have to render out the folder that were inside.

7:34:27
So, all were going to do in here is were going to say, if folder exist, then were going to do something. If not, well, do something else. So, inside here were going to return a p. P. Tag and we dont need any class name. Just render this out. Were going to say folder name. Okay. And if theres, nothing were going to say this, this video has no folder. Okay, awesome.

7:34:53
And then after that, down here, we have the separator. So, this is good to go. We have a div h2, a label. We have the paragraph tag to show the workspaces And then we have something called two here. So two. And we want to show which specific workspace, right? So were going to have the paragraph that says workspace in here. And then we have a section here with options inside.

7:35:16
So lets go ahead and remove this option. And first thing is now that we have register, I'm going to use the spread operator. And I'm going to bind, register to this element. Okay. What seems to be the issue here. Okay, so register, sorry, guys, I'm using the wrong, the wrong notation. So its register like this. Okay. All right. Nice. So were using that in here.

7:35:42
And the next one is, we can also provide a class name. Let me make sure we have everything correct. Okay, background. Transparent. Nice. Let me open this. And the next thing we want to do inside this is we want to loop over all the workspaces and render out an option for them. So, workspaces do. Map were going to get one space in here. And for each of these, were going to render out an option element.

7:36:09
This is going to have a key. And the key is equal to the space ID. And for class name, I'm just going to pass this in. And for the value, I'm going to remove this and say space ID as well. Okay, there you go. Now, it shows something called workspace, because thats, the text were going to remove this and were going to say space name. Next, I also have this on form, submit function.

7:36:31
So, im going to go up here and say, on form, submit, or on submit. And I'm going to pass in our new callback function. Okay, now, lets go down here. And after our separator or after the label, sorry, were going to create a bracket here, and were going to say, if we are still fetching, then were going to do something here, conditionally. So, first, were going to return a skeleton component.

7:36:55
So, just bring in skeleton from Chaty and UI, and were just going to provide some class names on top of this. So, were going to say class names withd, full height, 40 and rounded excel. And then if this is false, then were going to render a label component. So, essentially, we can also change the workspace, and the folder.

7:37:18
So, in here were going to create the other options for all the folders that are available as well. Okay. So, first thing is, were going to use a p tag. So, im going to say paragraph F, ers in the, in this workspace, right, like this. And im going to add some class name here. Okay. And for this, im going to add the following flex, flex, das column. And I want to add gap y of two.

7:37:49
And now inside this after the paragraph, im going to say is folders. So if something exists in here, and is folders length, right? So if this is true, if this is greater than zero, then were going to conditionally render something in here as well. So, if we have elements were going to again, return a select component. Okay, and were going to give it a class name, rounded, DXL, Bg. Transparent and textbase. Okay.

7:38:25
And now, we also have to use register to register this element. So, so im going to use register like this. Okay. With a spread operator. And you want to invoke it. And inside that, you want to pass in the ID. So one more thing in here is because these are different elements, we have to provide it for the workspace as well. So, workspace underscore ID. Okay, nice.

7:38:47
And I just want to make sure theres no spelling errors. And here im going to use the other one, which is folder ID. Okay. Now, inside the select element, now, I can render out the options for these for the folders. So, is folders, map. And for each of these were going to get access to a folder and the key, right?

7:39:15
So, I'm going to loop over the folders and I'm going to render, based on if the key is equal to zero. So, if key is equal to, why is this not letting me type? Okay. So, if this key is equal to, so zero, then were optionally going to return something else. So, I'm just going to do this for now. And first thing were going to return here is an option.

7:39:37
So, just to save some time, guys, I'm just going to copy paste just a little bit. And ILL, also read it if that helps you. Okay, so, we have an option. Its going to have class name, key, and value. And were going to have the name of the option as well inside this. Okay.

7:39:51
And if this is not true, if this is false, then were going to render this for all other elements other than this key zero. Okay, so here were rendering out the same thing, nothing different. And let me also go ahead and open this. Okay. Now, after this, so if we dont, have folders, then we have to return a message, right? So, were just going to say there are no folders in here inside a paragraph.

7:40:16
So, if you open this, you can see now, we have all the different type of folders in here, right? And ID actually encourage you to use the shaT, CNII components. I just did not have time. And just for, you know, the sake of getting this video done with I had to just put this in here. Okay, it was just easier for me.

7:40:34
So, if you want, please go ahead, use shaD, CNII, that should definitely make it look so much better. Now, after this, im going to hit enter here, and im going to create a button component. And inside this button, im going to use our loader component. And inside this, im going to say state equal to, is pending. And the color is going to be hash. 00. Okay, not dollar sign, definitely dont want to have that much.

7:41:04
Okay. And inside this, we can say transfer. Okay, so lets go ahead and quickly test this out. So, if you click on this right here, and if you move this from the Prodigies University folder into the client outreach folder, and go ahead and click on, transfer, it changes the folder. And if we click inside the client outreach folder, its going to show this video in here. Okay, awesome.

7:41:29
And just to show you, if you go back to my library, its going to show you the, the folder here. That also says one video in here. And if you click inside Prodigies university, you're not going to find it in here as well. Okay, great job, guys. Now, the next thing is, what happens when you click on this video, right? So, if I click on this, its going to take me into a page, right?

7:41:48
I wanted to navigate somewhere else. But because we dont have this page, its going to show a 404. So, lets go ahead and set that stuff up, stuff as well. But before that, I also want to create some work spaces in here, cuz, it just looks really empty.

7:42:01
So, what im going to do is im going to go into my Prisma Studio, and I'm going to close this, and im going to click onto click on the user itself, right here. And inside the user, were going to find a bunch of information right here, right, were going to find something called plan, lets see.

7:42:17
So, we have trial, lets turn this trial to true for now, and were also going to need to change the plan that the user is on. Let me see if we have subscription, where is the subscription? Okay, subscription in here. And in here, we have free plan. So, im going to open this in a new tab. And im going to change the free plan to the pro plan. Okay.

7:42:38
And im going to save this and go to my front end. And just quickly refresh. And now I can see a bunch of buttons right here. So I can create a workspace in here as well. But I want to first go into my, let me see if I can go into the create workspace, you know, button, and then essentially change this, cuz, I think I did not add that yet. Okay.

7:43:02
So inside the create a workspace component, which is right here. So create workspace index. TsX, you're going to find this button here. But inside this, we forgot to mention, create workspace, right? So, you can add that right here. So users can, they can pretty much know what theyre trying to do when they click on this button, im also going to zoom in just a little bit more.

7:43:22
So you guys can see clearly, okay, so much better. Now, when I click on this modal should popup. Nice. And now it ask me for the workspace name. And if I click on this, just to see to make sure we have our onsubmit. Okay, nice. And this also adds the, okay, y. This also adds it. So, I'm just going to quickly pass in a workspace, okay.

7:43:43
And I'm going to click on create workspace, lets see if everything was successful. Okay, so it says error, and it says workspace created. So, something looks off, HM. All right. So, looks like we made an, some sort of an error in here. Let me take a look. So, go into the create workspace endpoint. Okay, so, it worked.

7:44:09
And, I think the reason why it looked like it didnt work is because we probably had cached data, cuz. I did not refresh the page, right? So, ILL, give it a shot once more. And if I see it, then, you know, well, probably have to look into whats going on. But let me go ahead and try once one more time.

7:44:27
Okay, so, so the reason why that was happening is in here were returning a 2011 response. Okay, and its actually correct. Theres nothing wrong here, but we could probably make some improvements to our used mutation data hook, right? So, in here, we can say, if its equal to 200, or if its equal to 2011, and we can keep going that way. Or you can create an array up top.

7:44:52
And you can say data status do includes in that array. Thats another way. Okay. But just for simplicity sake, right here, I'm just going to say, or data status is equal to 2011, right, then we will show success. So, let me go ahead and refresh this and try once more. So, create a workspace. Okay, so I'm going to create a new agency in here, workspace, essentially, they also put an alert message.

7:45:21
So, ILL, just remove that. And if I cancel, there you go, it says success now. Okay, and now you can automatically see the new workspace is added in here. Great job. Now, one thing I will agree is this part does look a little empty when. We dont have the upgrade button, right?

7:45:39
So, what you could do, guys, and I would really suggest you do this for your SAS as well, which is, you need to have a plan to help people at a higher level. And what that means is just because you are a SAS, doesnt mean you cant sell Oneonone services. We do this in our SAS as well.

7:45:58
And we, we have helped so many other clients, so many other SAS business owners, pretty much increase their revenue, make more money every single month. Because of this very simple strategy. Just because someones using your, your software, it doesnt mean that it ends there. They probably need more assistance. They need more help.

7:46:17
And if you genuinely care about your clients, you will probably have a system in place to help them out at a more high level experience, right? Give them a more, give them a oneonone like experience with you.

7:46:29
So, you could have something in here that says, want us to handle your client outreach, for example, because a lot of people who are going to be customers of Opal are going to use this software to reach out to customers, right, to reach out to clients. So, in that case, you can essentially, maybe have like an upsell in here, or what WED, like to call more help. Okay, thats a better word.

7:46:51
So, if you want to provide more help to your customers, you can have a third tier that is kind of like, hidden, its, its not really out there, because not everybody should have the ability to work with, you, right? Only qualified individuals can work with you. So, you can have a, you know, some sort of an onboarding, a preet process, all that kind of stuff. Okay, honestly speaking, I really like, I really like the UI.

7:47:15
This is so nice. If you've noticed, I always have dark, dark mode, themed websites and applications. And the reason is simply because I hate light mode. And I saw someone in the comments the other day saying, can you please use light mode? I am sorry, I dont care.

7:47:32
Even if you pay me a million dollars, I will never do that just because dark mode is, in my opinion, its supposed to be an accessibility thing at this point, right? People hate light mode. It hurts your eyes. Okay, with something that is built in dark mode, you can use it even if its dark, okay, because it doesnt hurt your eye. Okay, if its light mode, its going to burn your retina anyways. Okay. Moving on.

7:47:59
All right, guys. So go ahead, open up the folders and come on, we got to speed up. Now, weve been on this for a couple hours, so I'm going to, you know, go through this a little faster, please keep up the pace. Okay, pause the video and type thats the best way for you to learn. All right. Okay. So, first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to shrink everything right here. Okay, shrink everything.

7:48:19
And you want to open up your source folder, and then open up the app folder. And inside the app folder were going to create another route. And this route is called the preview route. Okay, this is the route that we can share with other people. So, they can view these, the videos, and essentially whatever was shared with them, along with activity and all that kind of stuff. Okay.

7:48:40
And inside this, you want to create a dynamic route called video ID. Okay. And inside that a page. TSX next, go ahead and return a component and rename this to video page, or just keep it as page. TSX doesnt really matter. Okay, now, we need to get the PAMs from this, right? So, go in here, you're going to say PAMS, or you can do it from here as well.

7:49:05
So, PAMs like this, and were going to get the video ID, which is going to be a string. Okay. And I'm also going to go in here and destructure these. So, PAMs, and im going to get my video ID. Okay, now, in here, first, im going to create a query client, because were going to prefetch all the, all, the video data, okay, the preview, video data.

7:49:26
So, first thing, you want to say, const query equal new query, client. Go ahead and invoke this. And then next thing is, you want to prefetch the data. So were going to say prefetch query. And since this is an await, we need to make this an async component. And in here were going to say prefetch, query for this specific query key, which is preview video, and then the server action is get preview video.

7:49:50
Okay, so go ahead, copy this name, and im going to go into my actions folder, inside workspaces and going to scroll all the way to the bottom. And in here, im going to say export const get preview video. And this is going to need the video ID, which is going to be a string. So, video ID is going to be a string. Nice. What is this not sting string.

7:50:14
All right, next, we have to check if the user exists, right? So, lets do that inside a tr catch. So, in here, try catch block. And up here, I'm going to say const user equal, await current us user and change this to an async component.

7:50:31
If the user does not exist, then were going to return 400. Okay, then the next thing is, we got to create the, the request to go into our database and get us the video file. So, were going to say const await video equal, await client video. Find unique for this specific video ID. Okay, so where video ID is equal to this video ID that we passed in. Then we want to select the following data.

7:50:59
The first thing we need, well, theres a bunch that we need. So, please pause the screen and type this. I'm, just going to copy this from here. And all we need inside this one is as follows. So we need the title created at source description, processing views, summary, and the user data, right? So select first name, last name, the image, the clerk ID trial, and their subscription plan as well.

7:51:23
All right, so let me go ahead and quit this. I dont know why I open that. All right, now at the bottom here were going to say if the video exists, so we found a video from the database, then were going to return 200. Okay, so return 200 were going to pass in the data. In there, the author as well, and were going to say author is equal to user ID.

7:51:43
If this is equal to the clerk ID, then, well, return true or false. Okay, then, if something happened wrong, were just going to return a 404. And, well, return a 400 right here, or 500 doesnt really matter. Now, im going to close this and lets go ahead and import my, my server action. And the next thing I need to do, I hope you remember, is we need to wrap our component inside a hydration boundary.

7:52:06
So, go ahead and bring in this hydration boundary and the dehydrate as well. So, we can pass in the query. And in here, we dont need to destructure this. We just need to pass in the video ID. Okay. And now, inside this component, were going to create two things. First, we need the video preview.

7:52:22
And then, actually, I think thats about it, because I also want to reuse this video preview components and another file as well, right, so thats why. So, inside this, what were going to do is I'm going to go ahead and create the video preview component like this. Okay, and I'm going to copy this name and lets open up the folder structure, go into globals. So, components, global. And I'm going to create the video das preview.

7:52:54
I think we already have a video file, right? Okay, we already have something in here. So, inside this, we can create preview, and inside this index. TSX, and lets return a component and change this to video preview. Okay, the first prop this component is going to take is the video ID. So, im going to grab the video ID in here. And then were going to need to fetch the data.

7:53:17
So, what do I need to use if I want to get data using Query, react query. Great, hopefully, you said use query data. Thats exactly what we need. So, I'm were going to say, cons data equal use query data. And then we also need the get preview video server action. So we can fetch all the video details using this specific video ID. Okay, now lets go back quickly, import this component as well.

7:53:44
And now, we can pass in that video ID. So, lets go up here, video ID equal to video ID. All right, so now, I already have this page set up. So, if I click on, it lets see what happens. Okay. We see an error. Thats because inside the video preview component, we are using a hook. So, this has to change to a use client component. Okay, there we go. Nice.

7:54:08
Now, the next thing is, were going to get router here. Because if the user does not have, or maybe if were trying to fetch some data and were not getting it back, something is not true or not authorized, then we can re reroute the user, right?

7:54:23
So, im going to say, const router equal to use router This one comes from next navigation, not next router And then down here, I'm going to say, from this data, if I received a status thats not equal to 200, then I want to return the user, right? But before that, I also want to type cast some values. I'm going to say, const data, reset it as videos, status, and the author.

7:54:47
And I need something here called video props. Okay, not videos, video prop. So we have to go ahead and create that. So go down into your types file inside here. And at the bottom, you're going to do the following. So you're going to say status number, data. And for this is user, first name, last name, image clerk, ID, trial subscription.

7:55:10
And you can also just, if you have the Github, you can just copy, paste it from there as well, right? But pause this video if you dont, and you can pretty much just type it out. I'm going to go back in here and quickly import my video. Props. Okay, nice. And once I have this data, I want to make sure that the status is 200. Okay.

7:55:28
But if its not, I want to route the user back to the root domain. Okay, to the root page. Next thing here is I want to get the days ago number as well. So, I'm going to do the same thing in here, which is days ago, equal math, floor, new date, GETet time minus, when it was created and divided by 26 into 60 into 60 into th000. Okay.

7:55:51
So, once I get this, now, I can essentially render some data out here. Now, theres one more thing I want to do on this page, when a user gets access to this page, if the person who viewed the page is not the owner, or essentially, theyre not the one who owns this video, then we, we need to basically update the view counts. And we also need to notify the user that someone viewed your video.

7:56:19
This is super powerful, right? I have used a strategy and made so much money. I cant even explain. Okay, so this strategy is great. And this feature itself is a reason why people would might, might want to use our software. Okay, so, what I'm going to do is I'm going to put a work in progress flag, and I'm going to say, setup, notify, first view.

7:56:43
Okay, so, for now, I'm just going to call it like that. And down here were going to need to do the following. So, first, this div is totally fine. I'm just going to add a class name. So, please pause and type this class name, because were running out of time. And then after that inside, this were going to have another div. And this div is going to have this class name right here.

7:57:05
And if you want to know what we are building, let me quickly show you were essentially building this side of the page, only this only this part. Okay, this section is not there, because were using the preview page. So, the preview page is going to look something like this, guys. I would really, really suggest you get the Figma file. Okay.

7:57:23
You're going to learn so much from this If you have not built or designed, you know, SAS applications, you're going to learn a lot from this. Okay. So I really, really suggest you get it. But if not, I'm just showing you right now. So you can see what it looks like. So were just building this basically. Okay, so im going to go back to the code.

7:57:41
And in here, the first thing we need is the video title. So, the video title is going to be inside this, right? So create another div. And inside that, we want one more div with the class name, flex gap, x of five item start, and justify between. Okay. And inside this, were going to have our H2. So our H2 element like this. And thats going to show the video title. So, let me expand this.

7:58:04
So you can see video title, all right, looks awesome. And after the video title, we want to get the author. So who created the, the video itself. So were going to say, author, if the author exists, then were going to give the edit video right here, or were going to show an empty fragment. And if you dont know what this is, its totally fine.

7:58:24
Dont worry about it, U, but you will come to know as we build. All right, but thats pretty much what were going to show in here. So, I'm just going to comment it out for now. And then after the div guys right here, hit enter. And you want to create a span, with two paragraphs inside that span.

7:58:38
Okay, so span two paragraphs inside it, and were going to essentially show the date of when it was created. And we also want to show the user who created the file. Okay, next up here, I'm going to also give this margin, top of four. So we can give some spacing up top there, or two also might be better. Okay, two is so much better. Okay. And let me shrink this. So you guys can see more.

7:59:05
And after this, we want to render out a video element. So, after this div right here, you want to say video were going to put preload the metadata for, class name, were going to put width, full aspect, video, opacity, 50, rounded excel, and were going to show the controls. Okay. And inside this, we need to provide the source. So, go ahead and render out a source elements.

7:59:28
And the source is going to have this following ID. Okay, so, all of this is going to come from Cloudfront. Remember, thats pretty much how were getting the video source, right? So, were going to grab all of that from Cloudfront and were going to also render it with a specific ID. Okay, so video source, just like this, hash1. And we need all of this stuff for the video to render.

7:59:50
So, just go ahead, put this in here. And you can copy this. And if you dont have, I mean, you're, going to have it, but im not going to. So I'm, just going to go in here and add this to my environment file. So I can store it when I need to. And lets move on to the next part, right, after this. So, after the video file, go ahead and create a div right here.

8:00:10
And then inside this were going to need one more div. So, im going to create another div inside. And now, first, we need the paragraph to show the description, right? So, were going to say description in here. And then if the user is the author, again, were going to do the same thing down here. So, hit enter.

8:00:27
If user is the author were going to show the edit video component, if not, were just going to show an empty fragment. But for now, im just going to remove this. And down here, after this div, im going to put the video description itself. Okay, so right now, I'm just going to show no description because thats the default value. And now, after this div, guys, so we have one, two, two divs right here.

8:00:48
You want to create another div. And inside this div, you're going to create another div inside that. And please pause and type the class names. Okay, dont expect me, me to type it, guys. Its very difficult. And then in here were going to have the copy link component. So, lets go ahead and import the copy link component. We need to pass in the video ID.

8:01:07
And, you know, anything else, whatever components we need to pass in here, and then were going to need another component in here called the rich link. Okay, so, go ahead, copy this rich link component. And you want to open up your folder structure and lets see where we have our video. So, video in here, we have our links in here, right? So, im going to create a file in here called rich. DL TSX.

8:01:32
I'm going to return a component. And im going to rename it to Rich Link. Now, the rich link component is going to take a bunch of props. I'm going to provide them right now. And in here, I'm just going to destructure all these values. Okay, nice. I think theres one more. Okay, thats pretty much, it. Nice. Now lets go back. And also import this component. So, rich link lets go ahead and import this one.

8:01:59
And for the description, were going to essentially use a helper function. And this helper function is called truncate string. So, lets go ahead and grab that as well. Its very simple lets go to the utils file first. So, libs, utils, and at the bottom were going to say export.

8:02:19
So, export const, truncate string were going to receive the string and slice number, and down here were just going to say string slice from zero to whatever number or 30. And then were just going to add dot. Okay. Or if you want, you can also add the circles, which I did for the sidebar elements. That one works as well. Okay, lets go back in here. And im going to import the truncate string.

8:02:41
And then were going to have the ID and all the other props that this component needs, right? So, I'm, just going to pass it in. Nothing, nothing else, crazy. And inside this component, the first thing we need to do is we need to create a component in here called copy rich text. And this, this rich link is essentially like an embeddable link.

8:03:00
Okay, this is super powerful, because in emails, you can essentially embed the video itself, directly in that email. And your clients can see what, what that video looks like before they even click on it, right. Even more powerful, you can take this to a whole different level. And you can change this into a GIF. And that way, your client will see exactly what the video is, cuz its going to play, right.

8:03:24
GIfs, play inside an email. So, for now, we need to create this rich text template, and just please follow through with me. Okay. So, first thing is, im going to say, const rich text, like this, copy R text, and this is actually a call back, right? Its, its essentially a handler. And down here were going to have the button thats going to help us copy this.

8:03:45
So first, ILL, say button like this, and im going to import this button in here. And inside this, im going to say, get embed code. Okay. And in here, I need the on click hand handler. So, the onclick handler is going to be the copy rich text that we just created. And this, I dont, like that, I put a capital letter here. Let me put a small letter.

8:04:07
And after this, we want to also have a class name set to rounded D, full. All right. Nice. So, there you go. Now, it says, get embed code. Okay, now, in here, first thing were going to do is, were going to get the original title. So, im going to say, const original title equal to the title thats passed in from the props. Next, we have to create a thumbnail, right?

8:04:31
So, im going to say const thumbnail equal to this is a, were going to use back. Tis in here. And please just, if you have the Github, open the Github and copy the section, because I dont want you to waste your precious time. Okay. But essentially, its just an anchor tag, thats going to have some stuff on it, like, H3, a paragraph, like the description and all that kind of stuff, right?

8:04:54
So, thats pretty much it. So, im going to copy this. So, I dont waste my time as well. And essentially, its just this. Okay. Its just a template. So, please go to the Github and copy it if you have access. If not, pause this video and type it out. All right, anyway. So thats it.

8:05:11
And after this inside this were just rendering out all of this data, right Which is the original title and the description as well, and were just rendering this out so we can embed it. Okay, thats pretty much it Next, were going to need a thumbnail. So, ins inside this or right after this anchor tag, you're going to say thumbnail, blob. And thats equal to new blob. And you're going to pass in the thumbnail right here.

8:05:37
Pass it in here. And the type is text and HTML. All right, next we need the blob title. So were going to say blog title is new blog. And inside that, we have to pass in the original title and were going to say text plane. All right, next, we need an object, sorry, we need an array called data. Okay.

8:05:55
And this data is going to create a new clipboard item, and its going to copy all of this stuff along with the blob information. Okay, that way, we can paste, it, kind of like an embeddable, like an embed itself. All right, so down here were going to say con data equal, new clipboard item, and it create an object.

8:06:12
And for text plane, that means this one were going to pass in the blob title, and for text HTML were going to pass in the thumbnail itself. Now, we need to do the Navigator, docboard, dright, right? So Navigator, docboard, dright, this, this data do, then, were going to show a toast from Sonar and were going to say, embed link copied. So, if I get this, I'm going to get all of this data.

8:06:38
And right now, its going to its just going to show, like, this lets see what happened, something happened here. Oh, that was just because I pasted it in here. Sorry about that. So, if I get the embeddable link, I can essentially paste this wherever I want, because its, its, all of this data. Okay. Okay. So, I just pasted it inside an email.

8:06:57
And as you can see, it put a link with, you know, with the elements, the H2 tag and all that kind of stuff. The only reason why we dont have the video is because nothing is being rendered, right? So, nothings going to work for now, because we dont even have the API. Sorry, the endpoints itself, right?

8:07:12
So, because of that, nothing is going to show, but I just want to show you what it does itself, right? So, this is pretty much what it does. You see its putting the entire thing as an embed inside your inside your gmail. Okay, so lets go back and im going to shrink this page.

8:07:27
All right, and now im going to go back to our, what is this, the preview page, and just make sure everything is imported. All right. Nice. And after this, im going to have a download button. Okay, just for it to look nicer, really doesnt really matter, right? Its just a download button. You can change the color if you like, probably want to fix this as well. So this is justify content, items. Center?

8:07:52
Okay, thats much better. And I'm going to also change the class name to something a little darker. Okay, so something like this looks much better. All right, nice. So you can also download the file if youd, like all right, and its not too difficult to do that. Ill, ILL show you how to do that later. Or maybe, okay, well, just do it later, guys. Its not important, right now.

8:08:17
We dont even need it as part of the, you know, the feature of the app, right? Okay, so now, after this down here, we have a div here. And one more down, down here. Sorry, right below this one, not the second one right below this, you're going to create another div. And inside this div were going to create a tab menu. Okay, so tab menu, which will never show up.

8:08:40
Okay, so instead of doing the tab menu, ill create a custom component, and ILL put the tab menu inside that. Okay, so go into forms and I'm going to create a component in here. This is called tabs. And inside this, an index. TSX, and im going to say export, const tab menu equal to an Aror function. And first thing is this component. Or let me, let me actually do it this way.

8:09:08
Okay, so first thing is, were going to need some props in here. So the first props are the triggers, the children, and the default value. Okay, the triggers are a bunch of its, an array of strings. And children, again, you know, react node, and the default values string as well. So, lets go ahead and import destructure, all of these from the prop. So we can use them.

8:09:27
And next in here, I'm going to render out a tabs component. And this tabs component is going to have the default value, not default, check, sorry, default value. And this default value is going to be set to the default value we just got in. And the class name is going to be set to with, of full. All right, lets go to that one more time. Okay, nice.

8:09:49
And inside this, we now need to have our tabs list. So tabs list component is going to have the following class name. So, flex. Justify, start, Bg. Of transparent. And what seems to be the issue, we need to import this component. So, im going to go in here, and im going to import the tabs menu component. And im also going to pass in the three different triggers that I need.

8:10:15
So, first one is default value, I'm just going to call this all. And triggers are going to have a bunch in here. So, first one is all, of course, second one is summary. And the third one is activity. Okay, so im going to pass in three. And if I expand this, okay, lets al refresh. All right, lets move back here. Cool. And, this is going to need some children components inside this.

8:10:43
So, for now, I'm just going to create something in here. Okay, so, lets go back to the tabs menu. And for the tabs list, we have to return a tab trigger, right? So, inside this trigger, inside the list itself, were going to say triggers. Do. Map for each of these. We want to return a tabs trigger component.

8:11:04
Okay, if it will, it will allow me, then I can do it, but I dont think it wants to. All right. There we go, man. Next, just really hates me, man. All right. So, the first thing is in here, were going to get the trigger. So, lets grab that value and were also going to get the key itself. So, first pass in the key. You guys know the drill.

8:11:24
So, the key is going to be the, actually, you should never do this, guys. You should probably pass in the trigger. This is much better. Lets not use the key. Okay, next, we need the value. And the value is going to be set to trigger, like this. And the next thing we need is the class name. And, for class name, I'm just going to capitalize everything.

8:11:46
Say, text base, data state active were going to change the background color. Okay. And now, inside the tabs trigger were going to pass in the trigger itself. So, lets see what this looks like. Hey, look at that. Really nice, right? So, you can switch between these and any tab content that you have. Rendering for, that specific trigger is going to show up, down below.

8:12:07
Okay, so, first, lets also return the children components, and lets go back into this right here. And for this, we need to have the first, we need to have the values for the content, right. So lets go ahead and render that out. So, first thing is, I want to change this, the titles, guys, I'm going to call this AI tools, okay. And in here, im going to call this transcript.

8:12:33
And finally, this one can be the activity tab. Thats fine. All right. So, the AI tools is essentially all the stuff we get, like taking the title, creating a title, the description, and you know, pretty much U, anything that were trying to do AI related, okay. But one of the AI features is going to be inside transcript, which is essentially getting the, the transcript of the video.

8:12:58
So, users can also take that, and, you know, pretty much do whatever they want with it, right? I think having a transcript is insanely powerful. And the reason is because you can leverage that transcript to create content, right? So, and I have other ideas as to how to use a transcript, like, for example, imagine you had a chat bot that could speak to your entire video, right? They can ask it, questions and stuff.

8:13:24
We would need a transcript for that, because, because we can take the transcript, we can feed it directly into a knowledge base. And the knowledge base will have the answers to any questions that the users ask on that video. Super, super powerful, right Anyway. Okay. So, the first thing that I will build right here is the AI tools.

8:13:45
So, im going to go in here, and im going to say, AI tools like this, its a new component, of course. So, lets go ahead and copy this. And right now, were not going to be jumping into wiring up whisper AI or open AI or anything like that. We just want to create a like a mockup, right?

8:14:02
Just the, the layouts, and then, well, come back to it to wire up the back end or anything else we need to do. All right. So once we have these AI, the AI tools component, go down into your global folder. I'm going to say, AI tools, TS, sorry, not. TSX, its just this. And inside that, well, create an index. TSx. And this component is going to, again, I'm just going to render something in here.

8:14:29
And im going to call it AI tools. So this needs the plan first, and the plan has to be pro plan, or free plan, right. And after this, were going to have the trial, which is a Boolean property, and then were going to have video ID, which is a string. So what is trial?

8:14:51
So we want to also give the user the ability to essentially use one of the AI features just once, okay, to kind of get a glimpse of what it can do. Thats the main reason. And for that reason, the best way to do it is just using something called trial. All right, so this is not trial for their subscription.

8:15:11
Okay, theres, theres no trial, really, they only have free tier and pro tier, but there, theres no trial. Okay, the only trial here is for using the AI tools. Okay, so, I just went ahead and I'm destructuring all these values as well. Just give me one second. Okay. All right. And after destructuring here, down here, were going to render out the tabs content. Okay.

8:15:35
And I think default value all means its not going to work, right? We want to select the AI tools as the default value. And then it should select that one as the first one. Okay, nice. Now, its selecting, right? Great. Why is this not shrinking? Let me refresh. Okay, its cuz. The video was taking the whole screen. All right.

8:15:58
So, going back into our AI tools component, I'm going to remove this, and I'm going to return a tabs content component like this. And inside this, im going to give it the value. And this value is going to be the AI tools. Okay, next, inside this, were going to give it the following class name. So, I'm going to hit enter here. And im going to say padding five. Just pause and type this class name. Okay.

8:16:21
And if you want to know what were building here, let me see if I can show you. So were building something similar to this. Okay, its not going to be exactly like this, but something similar. So we can, you know, at least have options where we can pretty much click, and, you know, generate summary and titles and things like that. Okay, so its going to look somewhat like this. Not exactly like this.

8:16:42
Okay, so lets go back to our component. And in here, first thing is, were going to have a div and were going to need a div inside this as well. And this div is going to have width, set class name. What? What is this? Okay, class name, and in here were going to be its going to be with 8x2. And inside this, create an H2 tag with the class name, text of 3. Excel font.

8:17:12
Das, bold. And in here were going to say AI tools. Okay, just like that. Nice. And after this, H2 were going to have a paragraph tag in here called take your video to the next level, or the next step with the power of AI. Okay, power of AI sounds better. All right, nice. Then, after this, we want to essentially look at the tier that they have.

8:17:40
And then, depending on that, we want to return a button. Okay, so please follow through with me. So, after this div down here were going to say plan, if its equal to free, then were going to do something here, like this, or well, do something else right here. So, if it is equal to free, then we want to make sure theyre not on the trial, okay.

8:18:02
And if theyre not on the trial, again, were going to return something here, or, well, return another condition. So, if they are not on the trial, then were going to return a button component, okay, from components, and in here were going to say class name and set this to with, of 4 by 12. Okay, margin, top of two text SMM. Okay.

8:18:28
And inside this button were going to essentially render out a loader that says try now. Okay, its a loader. And inside that, we are going to have try now, right? So lets import our loader component. And for state is pending. Were not going to have this right now. So, I'm just going to set it to false and lets go up top. And I'm going to say, work in progress.

8:18:51
And we need to set up the AI. Why did a not show up? Okay. The AI. AI. Hook. Okay, so were going to set it just like that. And just for now, ill, also maybe just remove this so we can see what it looks like. Okay, cool. So, we have a button that says try now, like this.

8:19:11
And after this button, im also going to, I might also want to render out a button for users to pay, right? So let me see what I can do for that. Or maybe ILL just create another button down below for now, and ILL call this pay. And ILL, just hide this comment. If itll allow me to, okay, pay button. So, work in progress, pay button.

8:19:37
Okay, and were just going to have a pay now, or something like this. Okay. Well, figure out what to put in there. All right, looks great. And I also noticed theres no gap between these elements, which looks really bad. So ILL, go up here and ILL, create another, maybe like a div and ILL move all these buttons into this div. Okay. And I'm going to set it to class name.

8:20:05
Flex items, center justify between gap of four, if we need, okay, we dont need a gap, really lets just say, justify between, and see what happens. Okay, for width, well, remove the width. Okay, that looks decent. Okay, nice. Now, if we grow and shrink that tab looks so much better. And we can give this a gap of four. Okay, nice. Now, maybe for the pay button, we can give it some different styles.

8:20:40
Maybe we can call the variant, and maybe ill, just give it secondary, something like this, right? Looks great. Awesome. Now, after this button down here were also going to have another button called generate. Now, so im going to copy this same button here. Where is this? Copy this button. And after this div, so right here, we have a div, right? After this, im going to show another button that says generate.

8:21:07
Now, okay, something like this, and this is essentially going to help us generate the AI transcripts or whatever, that, whatever tool were essentially clicking on, right? Or maybe we can just put this button inside this guys. Why do we need it here? Right, so let me drag this and put it in here. So, generate now. Okay, looks nice. And this is, so, let me just tell you why we need the button.

8:21:30
So, first, we needed to generate AI features, but were using this button. Only if theyre not on the free tier. Okay, so if they have a paid tier, then this button will apply. All right. Okay, cool. So next, im going to scroll down here. After this div, im going to create another div and give it the class name of flex. Justify between. Okay. And inside this, well, create another div.

8:21:54
And well, give this a class name as well. Well, set this to flex D, column, items. D. Center. And then we need text center as well. We need text at a different color. So, please pause and type the color with me. Okay. And then I'm going to set this to gap Y of two, and then text of SM. I made a mistake here. So let me just fix this, y 2 text, SM.

8:22:21
And this should be good to go. And inside this, I'm going to use my video recorder, duone icon. So, im going to import the duone icon like this. And im going to set the width and set this one equal to 36. And the height, and the height will be equal to 36 as well. Okay, so lets just take a look and see what that looks like. It kind of looks horrible.

8:22:46
And, I will see how I can fix the design. But, let me just get some stuff up and going first and then, well, get to that. So, im going to say, generate video summary, for example. Okay, and then im going to have some more buttons in here. One is going to be the create and read video button.

8:23:05
So, right after this div, im going to create another one for Create and read video, and then download icon. Okay, again, this is just for design, sake, doesnt really matter. So, im just going to import something in here. And lets refresh. Okay, looks great, but im going to need to fix the UI. Looks like something is wrong here. So, let me quickly fix that as well. All, so, I just made some changes here.

8:23:28
And this makes it stand out a little bit more. And all I did here for the AI tools was, I just set a element here, and I gave it a background color. And I just created one div on top to essentially, you know, handle this part, right? And then I created a div to wrap all these elements. So, one div for this one, div for this, and one for this.

8:23:54
I had a left div and a right div. Okay. Left. If right, div, same thing, and I just use flexbox, so you can pause the screen, and you can type this out, or you can try to take it up as a challenge, and try to build something that looks similar to this, or just use your own design skills. Thats fine as well. Or you can just copy it from Github. Okay.

8:24:11
So, now, im going to save us some time. I'm just going to go back real quick. This essentially does not do anything. So its just styling, right? So, it doesnt matter too much. Just get something in for now. Okay, so now, right below this, im going to have another component called video transcript. Okay, and this video transcript, comp component is going to have the transcript prop right here.

8:24:34
And this transcript prop is going to get the video description, were just going to pass that into it. So, open up your folder structure, create a folder inside your global components called Vide transcript, and create an index. TsX. And in here were going to need the transcript as the, as the prop, right, its a string. And im also going to destructure it in here.

8:24:53
And then I want to create a tab content element that goes right in here. And this is going to have the, the value set to transcript. And for now, all we need to do is render out a paragraph in here, that will show the transcript. Okay, and right now, we have no description. So, its just going to say, no description. All right, cool. Thats pretty much, it. Also, I realized this weird bug here.

8:25:17
And I dont know where this is coming from. ITS just something CSS related. I see this thing at the bottom, and I dont know where its coming from. But if I turn off one of this, it goes away. And if I turn off one of this, it still shows.

8:25:34
So, is it this Like, I'm really confused if its, if its, the video transcript, what seems to be wrong inside the video transcript, like, I really dont know whats wrong here. Its still a tab content, and I imported it from the right folder. And H, just not sure whats going on. But it just looks like a bug. Because I'm able to also kind of swap between elements, right? So, something just seems off.

8:26:00
Maybe you guys can take a look at it and let me know whats going on, but im not too bothered about it. I mean, its still working the way its intended to, right. But anyway, yeah, this is, this is annoying me now, actually, whatever, guys. All right. So, I just take a look at it, see whats going on there. All right. So lets go back now. And after this were going to need an activity panel.

8:26:20
And this is where users can essentially comment on the video. Okay, so for now, im just going to create something in here with the value activity. Okay. And im going to get back to this later, cuz, I need to set up some stuff before that. So, im going to say activity, set up activity. Okay, like this. Nice. We have a lot of work in progress flags.

8:26:43
So, ILL, also take a look at that and just keep a keep an eye on it, to make sure were not crossing too many. But I think so far, this should be good to go. So, I'm going to take a moment to quickly solve all our work in progress flags. Because we have a bunch, right? The first one, and the way to actually do this is hit command shift. F, on Mac.

8:26:59
I'm, sorry, I cant really help Windows people. Okay. And in here, you're going to look for work and progress like this. And I'm just going to select these two. All right, or you dont even need to. Its fine. Its going to give you all different options. And the first one is AI. HOOK. This is okay. Add loading states. I see this inside folder.

8:27:17
And if you scroll down inside is inside the loader, we have to pass in the, is pending, right? So you can do that. And then you can remove this. Nice. Then we have wire up invitations. This is fine. The invite button. Thats. Okay, as well. And then we have the upgrade button. This is going to need stripe. Were not in stripe yet. Videos logic, of course, we havent, or have we actually done the videos Logic?

8:27:41
Let me just take a quick look, I think were good to go on this one. So I can just remove this. Work in progress flag right here. Okay, and then we have wire up date. This one is done as well. Cuz, we already completed that Upgrade button. Notify I first view. Well, get to this in a second. And set up activity. Well, also have to get to this. So, I think everything else looks good.

8:28:03
Let me just make sure one more time. All right. Good job, guys. All right, guys. Now, before we move forward, I just want to give a big shout out to stream. Whos also the sponsor of todays video. Now, stream gives you access to a bunch of really cool APIs that can allow you to pretty much speed up your web development process or your SAS development process. Now, stream is essentially the foundation for realtime inapp experiences.

8:28:30
So, whether you're building chats or activity feeds, or even video calling features inside your application streams, APIs, and SDks are built for this. So, theyre built for developers, who pretty much need reliable, high performance tools that can scale. So, stream now powers over a billion users across apps that are developed by SAS developers, just like yourself. At the moment. They offer three different type of APIs that you can leverage.

8:28:58
And you can use this inside Opal guys, you could literally offer more value to your clients, or even if you have another SAS application, you can leverage streams, features, and go live, much faster than if you needed to build all of these applications from, start to finish, right. So, these features will definitely take a very long time. I mean, you guys can see how long it took us just to wire up authentication.

8:29:22
This is going to take you even longer than that, because its realtime support, and everything scales. So, first, you can leverage the chat API. If you want something thats fast, customizable and scalable, right? And streams. Chat API supports messaging for social apps, collaboration tools, live streams, and so much more. Now, they also offer SDks for different type of programming languages.

8:29:46
So, if you're, using Swift, cotlin, or React, native, and theres more, of course, but if you're using different languages, you can use the same API. So, what you get is essentially a prebuilt component that is fully flexible. So, you can customize it, and its also scalable. And on top of that, its tested. That means you dont, have to spend time building and then testing everything.

8:30:09
And im sure you want to spend more time towards just building the application in general, and getting your product out there as fast as possible. So, they can handle all of the workload for you. That way, you dont, have to focus on building something thats scales. Now, their chat API also handles Oneonone conversations, group and community chats. But the coolest thing is, it also has a builin moderation for safety.

8:30:34
Now, the next awesome feature is the videos API. So, if you're, looking to build realtime video and audio experiences, they have a solution for you. Okay, because their solution, their API is optimized for low latency and high quality calls. So, everything is going to feel premium.

8:30:52
So, you can use this feature inside opal as well, lets, lets say if the prospect wants to also communicate with the business owner, you could have something like this in here, or, lets say, if you wanted to host probably webinars. I think thats a really cool idea. What if business owners can host webinars inside Opal? And you can also use the chat feature, where users can text in real time, you know, ask questions.

8:31:17
And I think this is a great opportunity for marketers to also leverage in their SAS as well with the videos API, whether you're, building Oneonone chats, or oneonone video calls, or even large group conferences. Stream offers flexible solutions with advanced features. So you can leverage them inside your application for pretty much any, you know, given situation, right?

8:31:39
They also have picture and picture and custom reactions, which I mean, you can literally build whatever you like, right? So, I think their videos API, and their video streaming capabilities is going to be very helpful for your SAS application, if you want to get things out as fast as possible.

8:31:57
And you dont want to care for, you know, building a scalable back end, or building the front end and testing everything, and all that kind of stuff. Now, the next feature is the feeds API. And I hope you remember, were also building an activity tab inside our application. Now, if you want this activity tab to scale, you're, going to need to have a backend system that can handle realtime data.

8:32:20
So, for example, lets go back to our webinar experience. So, if you have 50 or 60000 people who are watching a webinar, all at once, chatting, at the same time, you're going to need to build a backend that can scale with this component. So, the feeds API essentially gives you the ability to not only do this, but they also give you realtime features. So, everyone can see whats happening inside that webinar.

8:32:47
So, under the hood, stream uses Go and rocks. DB. So, essentially, they save your data and optimize it, so its fast and consistent, regardless of the load. Now, my favorite part of streams, SDks and APIs, is, they follow a developer first experience, which means its flexible, its performant, and its made to be easy to understand, okay, you can integrate it into pretty much any stack of your choice.

8:33:13
And you can customize all the UI components, and you can rely on clear and detailed documentation. So, they show you how everything works, and its step by step. Now, stream supports any Tex stack. So, so, you can use it in this project as well.

8:33:28
You can use it in Opal, in grupal, in, you know, plura, or any of the applications that we have created on web prodigies, and its going to work, because Stream supports any tech stack of your choice. And, of course, guys, this doesnt only work for web applications, its also for native applications as well. So, I think how stream makes this possible is they probably built everything on the edge network, right.

8:33:52
So, essentially, they have multiple global points, which give you access to their APIs. And its almost instantaneous that your users dont feel the delay at all. And this pretty much gives you like, 99999 uptime.

8:34:04
All right, so, handling millions of concurrent connections in a single channel, is not going to be a problem with Stream and Streams Architecture is designed for this, its designed for highs scale, low latency, because real time should always be in real time, right? You dont want real time to be 5 seconds from now. And, of course, they also have security Bakon with compliance to S, SO2, GDPR and HIPPO compliance standards.

8:34:30
So, they essentially offer you the endtoend encryption experience, and all your data frameworks can trust them, right? But yeah, if you're ready to start, and you want to use Stream API for this project, its completely free to get started.

8:34:43
Theres a link down in the description, you can click that link, and its going to take you into GetstreamIO, where you can essentially leverage any of the APIs that you want for GroupAL or any of the projects that we built. Okay. All right, now, ID, like for you to take up a challenge.

8:35:00
Now, of course, if you dont know how to do this, I will show you exactly how to do it, but I want you to also render out the component, which is the video component that we just created inside our dashboard as well, because right now, we only built the preview version. That means when we share a link to someone else, they will see the preview version, and not the dashboard version, because theyre not logged in.

8:35:23
So, ID, like for you to try to render the same component inside the videos route. So, just to give you some context as well, you would want to create a folder called video inside, workspace, ID. And inside that, you want to create the video ID and AP. TSX. And our video component s should essentially load inside this page. TSX. Okay, so go ahead, pause this video and give it a shot.

8:35:48
And if you dont know how to do it, I will show you exactly how to get this answer. All right, awesome. Hopefully, you got the right answer. If not, this is exactly what you need to do. Now, the first thing is, you're going to notice the video ID is also getting printed in here. And thats a little annoying, I get it. And you could essentially go into the global header.

8:36:08
And you could change that if youd, like, but for now, I'm just going to keep it in here. Okay, because it shows the video ID, and I can also copy this anytime I want. So I thought maybe it might be useful. All right. But essentially, all you have to do is first you want to go down to your preview page, TSX, just copy everything in here.

8:36:26
Then you want to go into your workspace ID right here, dashboard, workspace, ID, create a folder, called video. And inside that, you want to create the video ID, dynamic folder. And inside that dynamic folder, you're going to create the page. TSX. Okay. Now, thats pretty much it. You dont really have to do anything else. Crazy. The only other change I made, was there, there used to be some padding, and I just removed it.

8:36:53
Okay, so, I removed the padding of X, which was 10 or 20. And that created some weird indent. So, IVe removed that, and it sort of fixed a lot of the problems. Okay. So, you can remove that if you would, like. I just removed it. So it looks better. But, if not, no worries. And thats it. So, now, you're rendering this component inside the dashboard itself. Now, theres one more change you need to make.

8:37:15
And that change is when the user clicks on the video itself, right? Because right now, if lets say I clicked on this video, its taking me into this. Thats because I made the change. But for you, its going to take you into the preview page. So, what you would need to do for that is first you need to scroll down into your video card component. So, im going to search for video.

8:37:36
I'm going to go to video card, TSX. And down here, you're going to find a preview, SLprs ID, right? Propsfor ID, slV video SLPRs ID. So, when the user clicks on this video on the video itself, its going to take them into the video, not the preview link. Okay, hope that makes sense. And thats pretty much it. Okay, so hopefully, you made this change.

8:38:03
And great job to you, if you got the right answer, the next thing I'm going to do here is I'm going to shrink everything going to go into source into app into dashboard. And I'm going to create inside the workspace, ID, I'm going to create the billing page. Okay, page. Tsx. I'm not going to go crazy in this page.

8:38:21
But, if you want, you can take a look at the design file, the Figma mockup, and I put some really, really nice designs in there. So, you can translate that if you want into your application. Okay. But for now, I'm just going to call this billing page like this. And this billing page is, were first going to need to get the payment information of the user.

8:38:41
Of course, we dont have this setup, but all we need to do is just essentially get their subscription plan, thats it. So, we can technically still make this work. So, go into user, and at the bottom were going to say export const get payment info, which is going to be an arrow function. And in this, all were going to do is, were going to look at the current user thats logged in.

8:39:02
So, first, were going to say try catch, and on top here were going to first get the current user. And then if the user does not exist, well, return 4.404. And also change this to an async function, because were using await here, and then were going to get the payment from the database. So, were going to say users find unique.

8:39:20
Okay, so were going to say const users find unique for, so, sorry, and await client, user find unique. And then inside this were going to say for the clerk ID. So, where the clerk ID is of type ID. And what do we want to select? Sorry, guys, this is user ID, not just ID. And we want to select the following information. We want their subscription. We want to select the plan info.

8:39:46
All right, and were going to set this to true. So, thats how we get the plan info. And then down here, if we received, everything were going to return 200 and return the, the data. But if something went wrong, well, return 404 or 400, sorry. Okay. Now lets go back. And inside this component, I'm going to first get the payment info of the customer. So, im going to say, get payment info.

8:40:09
And we need to change this component to an async components as well. And now that we have this data, we can render it out. Okay, so, first, this div right here, the first div you see, is going to have the following class name. So, im going to say class name.

8:40:23
And let me just copy this, cuz, its, not too big, but I dont want to type in, make spelling errors, but just go ahead and type in this class name to give it some styling. And lets also try to navigate into our billing page. So, lets go into billing. Okay, awesome. It took us to the billing page, and I see something is wrong here. What seems to be the problem.

8:40:42
Let me just take a quick look, guys. Just give me a second. Okay, so, the problem here is inside our global header component, which is under the globals folder right here, were essentially getting the first element and the first element is going to be the backslash, right? So, were going to need to change that to the first element. So, were getting the second one, technically, and then we need to start from the second element onward.

8:41:09
So, from the, from 0.1, two. Okay, so this is zero, this is one, this is two. So essentially, starting from later on. And that way were able to remove the backslash and also capitalize the first character. Okay, so, let me go back and make sure. Library is working fine. Now, this should work. Good. All right, and if I go to the homepage, im not going to have anything.

8:41:29
I think its just going to throw an error. Okay, its going to throw an error. Thats fine. But what other, okay, we dont really have any other pages other than the folder. So, let me try to click on folder. Okay. It says my library. This is fine. And it shows a folder name. Okay, cool. Awesome. All right, so, now lets go back to our building page. And im going to close this here.

8:41:52
And now we can essentially continue from this section. Okay, so inside the billings page, first thing is im going to have a div with an H2 and a paragraph. So, div h2 paragraph, its going to be text to excel. Its going to say, current plan. And in here were going to say, your payment billing. Okay, what seems to be the issue here? Why is it still showing? Okay, it was just taking some time to reload.

8:42:15
And next, we need to have another div that shows a subscription plan, along with the name of the plan. Okay, so down here, I'm just going to say div. H2 and paragraph again. So, in here, I'm just going to show the plan that theyre on. And right now, this user is on a pro plan, right Because I already upgraded them through the schema, right? Sorry, not through the schema, but through Prisma.

8:42:40
So, because of that, theyre just automatically upgraded. That way, were able to see all these features. But right here, I'm just going to say $99 or 0 per month. And down here, I say standard subscription, of course, please feel free to change this. Youd, like you can also, you know, render out exactly what their plan is. So free plan or pro plan, that might probably be better, right?

8:43:02
So lets go ahead, copy this information, and I'm going to render payment dot the plan itself. Okay, so, pro plan, like this. Okay, nice. This probably looks good, or you can just keep it like this. I think the plan just makes it look weird. All right, nice. Thats it. Very simple. You dont, have to go crazy and overboard.

8:43:24
But if you take a look at the Figma mockups, which you can grab from the description, I gave some really nice designs, so you can use that, and you can pretty much make that production ready, right? All right. So, now that the billing page is done, let me see if I can create any more pages here. Okay, lets create the notifications page. So, I'm going to say notifications like this.

8:43:44
And inside that, im going to create our page. TSX. And in here, lets return something and call this notifications. All right. Awesome. And inside this first, were going to need to get some data, right? So, were going to need to use Usequery data. And, of course, this is going to become a client component. So, I'm going to say, use, use query data. And I'm going to get all this data from here.

8:44:09
Or maybe I can try to just use the query client and try to prefetch the queries here. So, heres what I'm going to do, guys. So, first thing is, I'm going to create, I'm going to import the server action, get notifications. Then in here, I'm going to say query equal new query, client. That way, we dont have to make this a client component. And then I'm going to say, await query, prefetch queries, user notifications.

8:44:33
Okay, and down here were going to say query function, get notifications And were going to, we dont even have to invoke this. We can just remove this because its a function, right? We can just pass the function itself. And now we can, I think we might be able to, will prefetch, query actually return anything. Let me just take a look. All right, so I think inside our code were actually prefetching. Let me take a look.

8:45:01
So user notifications. Okay, were actually prefetching that guys. We dont need to prefetch again, so, it does make more sense to just use query data. Okay, I hope you understood, why were doing this? And if you dont know, the reason is because we already prefetched the data, right? So, if we do make this call, were going to instantly get the data, its not going to take time to load anything.

8:45:22
So, were, okay with changing this to a client component. Okay. So, I'm going to say, use clients. All right. And essentially, use query data, and this ones, user notifications, and were just going to pass in the same callback function in here. Okay. Now, the next thing is, I want to do the same type casting, and I also want to rename some stuff. So, down here, I'm going to say, const data as notifications. Okay.

8:45:47
And im going to provide the status like this. And this is going to be equal to notifications. And this is going to be typ, cast it as the following. So, please type this with me. So, first, were going to say status is number, and the data is an object. And its going to be inside this were going to have notifications.

8:46:08
And thats going to be an array of this object, which is ID, user ID and content. Okay, thats pretty much it. So, it looks like we have some something. Okay, just remove this s here, and this is the notification, and this is notifications. Okay, cool. Now, if status is equal is not equal to 200. So, something happened with this. So, if status is not equal to 200, then were going to return a div.

8:46:33
Okay, and this div is going to have the class name. Flex. Also lets go to the notifications page, so we can see whats going on. All right, lets just give that a second to spin up. Okay, so, of course, we cant make this a client component, right? So, I mean, we cant do async here. So, lets remove that and lets refresh. All right. Nice. So lets go back.

8:46:56
I dont know why it sent me back to billing. All right. So, down here, this is going to be flex. Justify center items, center, and then height of full, and then width of full as well. Okay, and inside this were going to create a p tag and were going to say no notifications. Okay. All right. Awesome. There we go. Now, if there were no notifications, then we have to show something, right?

8:47:27
So, what are we going to show? Well, first, were going to create a div here, were going to set it to flex and flex of column, then were going to loop over all of our notifications. So, over this one right here, notification were going to loop over that and were going to grab notification from there and were going to say map. And for each of them, return a div.

8:47:46
And for that div were going to return an avatar. Okay, so im going to say avatar, avatar. Fall back. The user. I, if nothing, exist. And then down here, im just going to say the content. So, what is the message of the notification? And if you want to see what this looks like, its going to look something very similar to this one right here. Where is that? There we go.

8:48:11
Okay, so were going to have notifications just like this. All right, you can do much more advanced stuff, like have the date time, all that kind of stuff. No problem. But this is the basic, this, this is pretty much the basic of what you need, right? The base of what you need. Okay, nice. So the next page that were going to be building is the settings page.

8:48:29
So, open up your folder structure, create a folder, called settings. And inside that, create a page. TSX. Now, using TSRCE, I'm just going to return settings page, like this, and im going to rename it to settings page. Okay, dont worry what you're, I mean, what you see right here, ILL explain in a second, but just do, as I say, for now. Okay, now, once this is done, go into your prisma schema.

8:48:51
And just, I mean, just make sure, cross check that you have first view, boolean, and its set to false. Okay, cuz Initially, I had it set to true. So just make sure its set to false. So what is this feature, if you were sending videos to your clients wouldnt you like it. If you had a notification being sent to you, saying someone just viewed your video, right? That would be great.

8:49:15
So, this feature essentially allows us to keep track of the first person who views the video. And all the user has to do is go in here and turn on this switch component. And that essentially will turn on this feature for every video in their, in their dashboard. Okay, so the first thing is, were going to create a state here. So, im going to shrink everything. So, it doesnt confuse you too much.

8:49:39
Were going to create a state called first view, and set first view as well. And this is use state in here. And the default types are undefined, or boolean. So, I'm going to pass an undefined right in here. And the reason is, because the way shats and UI has switches, setup, is horrible. I hate it. All right. I wish they get to change this, hopefully sometime in the future. But thats the first thing. Okay.

8:50:03
You want to create a state. Now, dont worry about this theme, its just a bonus stuff, just some bonus stuff that I put in here, in case you want to add it for, into your application. And ILL, give you some instructions on how you can use this as well.

8:50:14
So, the first thing is, when we load this component, I want to create a use effect that will fetch the data, that will fetch information, whether this component has to be on or off. Okay, whether the user turned this feature on or off, by default. So were going to have a function here called fetch data. Its going to be an async function, and were going to invoke this function down here, immediately inside of use effect.

8:50:39
Now, next thing we want to do is, were going to pass in the first view in here. Okay. And if the first view is not equal to undefined, we also want to return, right? Because we dont want to always keep fetching information. What seems to be the issue here. Let me just take a look. Sorry, guys. Its not equal to, undefined, then, well, return.

8:51:02
So what this means is, if the user has already fetched the information, then we dont want to refetch again. Okay, so if I refetch lets say, if I refresh, like this, its going to make one call in the beginning, and its going to populate this value, because were fetching data. And after that, if im changing it here, based on whats in inside this dependency array, its not going to refetch every single time.

8:51:29
So, thats why im returning it right here. And thats why this Undefined is going to help me. Okay, hope that makes sense. So, what are we doing in here? Very simple. We have a server action called get first view. So, lets go ahead and create that. So, inside your users Typescript, inside actions, you want to create this function called export const. Get first view, its an ACing function. And this function has a tri catch block.

8:51:51
And inside the try first, were going to get the current U user. Once we get the current user, if the user doesnt exist, send a status of 404, saying error. I mean, an error took place, right? Then, if the user does exist were going to go into our user table, where the users clerk ID is the same as the user thats logged in. And then we want to select the first view and return it back.

8:52:15
So, that way, we can tell whether the user had this option turn on or off. Now, if we got data, well, return 200 along with that data. Okay, thats it. And then here, return 400, if everythings wrong, you guys know this, I'm not going to explain that stuff. Okay, so, going back in here, thats all were doing, were making the call. Then if the response is 200 were going to set first view to Responsedata.

8:52:39
So if its true, itll immediately set it. So, if I refresh, because its false, right, now, its turning it to the false option. If it was true, and if I refresh, its going to turn it to the true option. Okay, awesome. So, let me quickly just undo this. Nice. And let me refresh. Cool. So, I hope that makes sense. Thats pretty much all were doing in there.

8:53:05
Okay, now, when we first load, we want to turn this off. Okay, we want to turn this off, because its going to take some time to render that out, right? So, first thing were going to return is an H2 tag for the, for the title here. I'm just going to call it video sharing settings and a paragraph tag for this detail. And then were going to have the label and the switch.

8:53:29
Okay, this switch component is going to need to have that option in there, which is disabled if first view is equal to undefined. So, when were first spinning this up, when you're first spinning this up, not off First, spinning this up. If you look at it, its going to be gray out. Let me see if I can zoom in a little bit more.

8:53:48
Okay, you see, when I refresh its grade out, right, and I can see the, the disa disabled cursor, right? Thats basically what you want. Now, once the user changes this, so if they click on this, then we want to only use this value, nothing else. So, this state that was used in here. So, this one. Okay, so, how do we do that on? Check. Change has to be set to switch state. Okay.

8:54:17
And switch state is a call back function. So, when the user changes something, we want to essentially get some value, right? We want to fetch information. And then when the user clicks on this, you can set first view to the opposite of what we have stored, or you can do the same thing inside set on check. Change, right? But the reason why actually, we cant do that guy, sorry about that.

8:54:41
So, when we first load, right, when we first load, if we are fetching information right here, if you first load, this gets invoked once, so, thats why im not going to do this onclick stuff inside this as well, because if it gets fetched, once its going to immediately reverse what I have stored, okay, so, oncheck. Change is going to be a, a call back function, lets leave that for now.

8:55:07
ILL get to that in a second. Disabled is going to say, first view, equal. Undefined, and checked is going to be first view. Okay, so, based on the state, were going to have this on or off. Thats pretty much it. Now, on, click here is essentially, when the user clicks on this were going to turn this off, thats it. Okay. Now, lets go all the way up here.

8:55:24
Now, lets look at the switch state all were doing is were making another server action called enable First view. And were passing in the value, the checked value that is stored inside the switch state, switch component. And if we got a response, well, just show a toast message. Thats literally it. Okay, so lets go into enable. First view. All were doing is we have a tr. Catch. Were getting the user info.

8:55:46
If user doesnt exist, return 44, then were going to go into user, and were going to update the, for this specific user, where the clerk ID is, like the user ID, and then were going to change first view to the state that we just passed in, and thats it, just return 200 back. Okay, thats literally it. And now, this works amazing.

8:56:07
So, if you refresh, you see, it takes a second to load, but it has the data. So, heres a challenge for you. You dont have to do it right now, but something you can maybe keep for later, I want you to improve the user experience right? Now, when we get data, were doing it, client side, which means its going to take some time. You can either have a loading state that looks slightly better.

8:56:29
Or what you could do is you could prerender, all of this data, pull that data, and then load it immediately in here. So, because this is a client component, and this component down here, the switch component is a client component. I need to change this to a use client component, right? So, because of that, we have to Al fetch data, client side.

8:56:49
So see, if you can figure out a way to improve the performance, and maybe improve the use experience just a little bit more, but thats not the focus, right? The focus is to get maximum value out of this feature. Now, I also added a bonus feature in here called use themes.

8:57:05
And you will get this, of course, when, if you're, getting the license, or you're, just purchasing or just getting the Github repository to take a look at the code, you will get access to this. All right. Essentially, it is a theme creator, where, let me see, if I can turn this on. And you're, going to have three different type of themes, okay, which is system mode, light mode and dark mode.

8:57:27
So, you can use this to Toggle between them. Okay, looks really nice and looks per professional as well. So, thats why I just put that in there. We actually use that in one of our past projects. So, you can use that for this video. Okay, for this project as well. All right. Cool.

8:57:41
Now, next thing we want to do is now that we have this turned on, lets see if I can complete maybe the activities tab, right? So lets go into my library. Okay, so this is our video file, file, looks great, but we need to change the activities tab, right? So, first thing is, im going to go into my Prisma schema, and I want to add a property.

8:58:02
Now, I think you will not need to do this. Cu, you would probably, I mean, if you copied it from the Github, you're, probably not going to have this problem, right? But we need to add comment, which is going to have another model called comments. Okay, and its an array of this comment. So, lets go ahead and create that comment, model as well. The comment model is going to look like this right below here.

8:58:23
So going to have ID, the comment itself, created at, let me bring this all the way down, were going to have reply, which is a nested comment. So, a reply can have a bunch of comments in it as well. Right. And then we want to have the comment. This one is essentially just relation stuff, and the common ID that were speaking about. And then this is also attached to a user.

8:58:46
So were going to have user and user ID, and then were going to have video and video ID, because the comments are going to be for a video, right. And then thats it. And, then the created ad, you guys already know about it. So, lets go back. And now that we have that, we have to open up our terminal.

8:59:01
And we want to say, bun, X, prisma generate, going ahead, enter, and then bun X prisma DB push. Okay. There we go. All right, I think I made a spelling error, just one second. Okay. Its bun, X prisma space, DB space push. Okay. So, once thats, thats done, now, all of our schemas will have that value. Okay, next thing we need to do is, were going to create a component in here called activities. Okay.

8:59:28
And im going to copy this name, okay, and were going to open up the folder structure and lets go ahead and build out this component. So inside the preview tab, you can create, or where, wherever we have the video transcript. Okay, we have a separate component for that. So, ILL create another component in here called activities. Okay. And inside that, an index. TSX lets return a component. And im going to change this to activities.

8:59:55
Now, this is going to need first the author and the video ID. So, im going to grab those props. And I also need to destructure these props from here. Okay, nice. And once this is done, lets go back. And also make sure we import this component. So inside index. TSX, im going to import activities, component like this. Nice. Now, this component is going to need those props. So lets go ahead and pass in those props.

9:00:22
First. So were going to say workspace ID, sorry, guys, not. Workspace. ID. Let me see what we need. The author is going to be the following. Its going to be video user, first name, and were just going to set that as string. And then next, we need the video ID itself. So, I'm just passing that in here. Okay.

9:00:40
Now, if I click on the activities tab, I should see the activities panel in the, at the bottom. Now, click on activities. And this is going to need the tabs content component. So lets remove this and render a tab, tabs content component and lets import this component as well. And I'm going to change this to activity. So, now, if I click on this, its going to show up, you see, this is really weird.

9:01:04
Its, create its creating a container for, for each element. And I have no clue why its doing this, but its, its really bothering me. Hm. Or maybe thats how it works, I dont think so, right. Is that how it works, guys, I dont know. Anyway, I dont really care because it does the job. So im happy. Anyway. So lets go into this component. And the first one is, were going to create a comment form, right?

9:01:32
We need the input field. So were going to need a comment form, and then were going to loop over all comments and render out a comment card. So two sections. So first, lets go ahead and say comment form. Okay, just like this, and lets go ahead and build this common form. So copy this title here, open up your folder structure.

9:01:52
And in here, I'm going to say comment dash, actually, inside forms, I'm going to create a folder and say comment, das form. And inside this, index, TSX, and schema typescript. So inside my index file, lets quickly return a component. And im going to rename it to comment form. And then im also going to go ahead and build out my schema.

9:02:16
So for the comment form were only going to have the comment, which is a string, right, so I'm going to first import ZOD. So import Z from ZOD. And next, im going to export const create common schema, which is going to be Z doob. And we need to provide comment, which is Z string, minimum of one character. And the message is, comment cannot be empty. So lets go back, and also import the comment form component first.

9:02:47
Okay, awesome. This is inside activities. And inside this, now, we can pretty much build out the comment form itself. I hope you guys remember, in order to create a form first, were going to need to use the use ZOD form hook, right? Now, we also need a bunch of other stuff, like the video ID, the comment ID, and whatever were trying to.

9:03:09
Like, we also need the is pending states, right, errors and all that kind of stuff. So, the best way to do this is because were going to need react query. And all of this lets put it into a hook. Okay. So scroll down here, and im going to create a hook called use video comment. So, down here, use video. Okay. And inside this, I'm just going to call it use videos, video. Sorry, guys.

9:03:34
So use video typescript. Okay, now, im going to export H. Use video comment. And this is going to be an Aror function. All right, nice. And this Aror function is going to need two things, the video ID and the comment ID. So, lets go ahead and grab those. And inside this, first thing is, were going to use query data, because we need to get some data.

9:03:59
Okay, so were going to say use query data, and we only want the user profile. All right, so were fetching for user profile information. And once we get this response down here were going to destructure data from this. So were going to say, data is going to be rename to user. Okay, were going to destructure this, and were going to also get status from that. Okay.

9:04:22
And then were going to typ, cast this and say status number, data is ID and image. Thats pretty much it. Now, after this were going to need use mutation data. So, lets say const data equal to use mutation data. Were going to invoke this. And in here, first, we need our mutation key. This is a new comment. The next one we need. Why did this not import? Why is it panicking? Hello.

9:04:48
Okay, sorry, guys, this is not an object. This is just a function with different parameters, right? And after this were going to need a callback function. Thats going to help us create the comment and, or any replies. So, I'm going to say arrow function. And I'm going to create a server action called create comment and reply.

9:05:07
And im going to pass in the user ID, the data in the comment, the video ID and the comment ID as well. Okay. Now, after this, we also were also going to need the mutation ID, not mutation ID, were going to need the, what do you call this one? The query key. Right, so, I'm going to pass in the query key, which is video comments. And then finally, a server action.

9:05:29
Thats going to help us reset the form. Okay, not a server action, guys, sorry. This is the call back, right? So on success were going to have a callback function thats going to help us reset and reset is going to come from our, from use mutation. Sorry, guys, not use mutation, were going to get reset from use ZOD forms. Okay, from use form HOOK, basically.

9:05:51
So, right now, I'm just going to say reset for now, because were going to need it anyway. And then ILL, come back to this. So, it doesnt scream at me. Okay, so, up here, first thing is, lets go ahead and use ZOD form. Very simple setup. So were going to say, use ZOD form, import use ZOD form. And first thing is, we need our schema that we just created.

9:06:13
And we also need the mutate function right? Now, where is our mutate function going to come from, its going to come from our use mutation hook. So, first thing is, lets move this up top here. Okay, and down here, use mutation data is going to give us is pending. And mutate, so lets grab this. Now, we can pass it into ZOD form. Okay. Now, we need to also create this server action.

9:06:39
So, lets go ahead and open up our folder structure. And im going to scroll up to users. And down here, im going to say export const create comment and reply. And this is going to need a couple parameters. We need the user ID, the comment, the comment itself, the comment ID and the video ID. And in here, first step, you guys know, were going to create the tr catch block, right? Why is it not showing?

9:07:07
Okay, tr catch. And first thing is, lets get the comment. So im going to say const reply or comment, whatever thats fine. Equal, await client comment. Oh, need to change this to an async function. Okay, client comments update, where the ID is equal to the comment ID. And then we want to get, I mean, we want to update some data, not get data, we need to update some data.

9:07:36
And the data were updating here is, were going to set reply and were going to create a reply, were going to pass in the comment, were going to pass in the user ID and were going to pass in the video ID. Okay, nice. Now, at the bottom, if everything is successful, the reply was successful, right here were going to return to 100 and were going to say reply posted.

9:07:57
Okay, now, we also need to create a new reply. So essentially, if this reply already exists, then were just in a way, were just updating that comment, right. But, if the reply does not exist, then we need to create a reply down here. So, were going to say new comments equal. Await client video update for this video ID and were going to create a new comment. So what seems to be the problem here?

9:08:24
Okay, so, for some reason, bun X, prisma generate, did not win. Did not, did not work. So, im going to say bun, X prisma generate, and im going to hit enter. Okay. And then I need Bun X prisma DB push. So hopefully this does not cause. Okay, there are no problems. All right, were good to go. My server is still running. Nice. Lets go back. Okay, that solved my problem. So it was just Prisma. Okay.

9:08:51
So anytime, anytime you get this error, just make sure your schema is up to date. And your, and you did Prisma generate. Okay, so at the bottom, if we have a new comment, everything was successful in here, then were going to return this back. Okay, still looks like something is wrong, guys. Okay, so I made a spelling error. Maybe thats whats causing it. So, this needs to change to comment.

9:09:14
Okay, not comment its comment with a capital. All right, I think this is what it needs. And then you're going to create the following data. Okay, I think this is better. All right, and if an error took place, I'm just going to return 400 down here. Okay, nice. Lets go back and lets import our, create a comment. And reply. HOOK. Okay, sorry, server action. Now, we need to return all of this, right?

9:09:37
The register on form, submit, the errors and is pending. So we can grab the, these states lets use that, lets export it. And now lets use it inside this component. So, im going to say, const some data equal to use video comment. And lets invoke that. And this needs the video ID and the common ID. So, im going to go ahead and grab those from the props, because thats, where were getting this from, right?

9:10:07
So, I'm going to say video ID, comment ID, author and close. Okay, now, in here, I also need to destructure these values. So lets grab that. And I want to make sure I pass in those values that I need into this comment form. Okay, so in here, I'm going to say author and the video ID itself. And that, thats coming in from props. So just pass that in here. Okay.

9:10:34
Now, inside this component, we also need to grab all of the stuff that we just, that we used from here, right? So, im going to grab those. And then im going to come down here, and im going to return a form component. Okay, nice form. And this is going to going to have a class of REL relative. So, im going to say class relative with set to full.

9:10:56
And then I want to check if the user has a close function in here. If they have a close function, then im going to have an X button, thats going to help them pretty much close, that elements, right, or basically fire the close function on, click. Okay, so, what im going to do, guys is in here, im going to say, if close exist, like this, then im going to render an X button from lucid react.

9:11:24
And I'm just going to put their close function on that. Okay. And thats it. So, I just have this in here. And, if you dont know what this is, right side, lets see what the error here is. Okay. This needs to change to a use client component first. Okay. Now, if I click on this, something is still messed up. Let me see whats the issue, guys. Just give me a second.

9:11:49
So, I figured out the problem. So, the reason is because we are using use query data, and use query data, is going to look at the data that we already have, and, which is a preetched data, and its going to try to get it from there. Okay. So, you see, if you click on this, you're going to see right side of assignment cannot be destructured.

9:12:06
Thats because we are not prefetching the data in a different part in our application. So, first thing you need to do is go into your users Typescript, right up here, were going to create a server action. So, we can fetch the user data. So, were going to say, get user profile, and say export const. Get user profile. You want to create a tr catch.

9:12:28
And inside the tri block, you're going to say const user, await current user. You guys know the drill. And if theres, no user just return 404. Next profile ID and image equal. Await client user find unique for this specific clerk. ID, were going to select their image and the ID and then were going to return this if everything is successful. Okay, so now, inside the video file right here, which is video dashboard. Okay.

9:12:55
Dashboard, workspace, ID, and video ID page. TSX were going to pre create our prefetch request. So were going to say, await query, prefetch, query were going to pass in query key, which is user profile, and the function itself. Okay, so now were prefetching this data. So copy the same thing now, and you want to go into your preview folder, video ID, and click on that page.

9:13:19
TSX, and paste the same thing in here, and just import the get user profile. Okay. Now, once that is done, lets go back into our hook, which is use video hook. And in here, I think now everything should be good. So if I click on activity now, I dont see that error. Okay, the reason is because data did not exist in the beginning. So, when we try to destructure were getting nothing back.

9:13:45
Okay, thats the reason. Okay, cool. And also, one more thing is in here in the get user profile. Just make im, sorry, the callback function, just make sure to provide the get user profile as the callback. So now, when you click on this, its also firing that callback function. Okay, now lets go back to our video preview component, or which is the activities tab, inside comment form, and lets proceed from here.

9:14:13
So, the first thing we need here is the form generator component. So I'm going to create form Generator, and I'm going to import this, register, sorry, import it. And I'm going to pass in some props, I'm going to say, register in here. Then I'm going to say, errors. Pass in the error object, the placeholder, which is respond to author. The name is comment. Input type is text, area, lines, eight, and the type is text.

9:14:39
So, now, as you can see, you can, you have a text area component in here. And you can add whatever you want. And if you dont, like this, you can also check, change it to lets see what else. We have an input field. Its pretty much the same thing. And thats probably what you would want to have, right? So, you can have an input field in here.

9:14:57
And I dont think we actually need the x button, guys, because I would like the input field to actually remain in there, right? So, lets have the input field in here. This should be good to go. And next were going to have a button where the user can submit this form. So, right here, im going to say button, lets import this button. And then were going to have a loader component.

9:15:17
Okay, were going to have the send button. Nice, and then were going to pass in the loading state, which is the is pending. Next, were going to have the send icon, which is going to have the following class name and the size. And dont forget to add type submit on the button as well. And dont forget to put these class names as well.

9:15:39
Now, I see that we have this here, but it just looks a little out of place. So, let me see if I can change this. Okay, so, first thing is, I changed bottom two to top of one pixel. And that just brought it right in there. So, thats pretty much all I need. I dont really need anything else. And then write three. This is good to go. So, cool.

9:15:59
Now, on the form element, we also have to pass in our, on some on form submit. So im going to say, on submit, and im going to pass in the on form submit function. Okay, so now, when I click on the submit button, its going to submit this data. So, now lets go back from the form.

9:16:14
And if theres no points and adding any data right now, so I cant really test it because were not rendering all the comments, right. So, right below the comment form, we just have to render out a small component called the comment card. So, lets go ahead and build that out.

9:16:29
So down here, im going to loop over any comments, or actually since we dont have any comments for now, I'm just going to create a comment card, just like this. And inside this, actually, first lets go ahead and create the comment itself. So go into global folder. I'm going to create the comment, dasC card. And inside this, an index. TsX, and lets return the comment card itself. Okay, nice.

9:16:52
Now, inside this were going to need some props. So lets go ahead and first, grab those props. So first were going to need the comment itself Were going to need the author, which is image first name, and last name, the video ID, the comment ID, and the reply, which is going to be a custom type, which, well, create in just a second, and then were also going to need the is reply.

9:17:12
Okay, so now lets go ahead and create the commments type. So scroll down here to types and inside these types. At the bottom, you're going to say export type comment replies, props, which is going to be ID, comment created at comment ID, user ID, video ID, and then the user itself, and all of that information. Okay, so pause and please type this if you need to, or you can copy it from the Github repository.

9:17:38
Now, going back here, I'm going to import our comment replies. Props. All right. Awesome. And after that, down here, were going to need to destructure all of these values. Okay, so, let me go ahead and destructure. Nice. Cool. Now, lets go back and make sure weve imported the Comon card component. And that should solve this bug right here. Okay, awesome. And now, if I click on this, I can see the comment card. Nice.

9:18:06
So lets go back into the component. And now, first thing we need to do is we need to create a state here. And this state is essentially to keep track of replies. Okay, so its not all the replies, but its just the reply itself.

9:18:19
So, if something is, if, if were essentially reply to something, then were going to have a button, a state here, that, you know, pretty much keeps track of if were replying or not. And then based on that state, we can render out some data. So first, I'm just going to create the state called, on reply. So lets invoke you state and pass and Boolean for now.

9:18:39
So, this is going to help us keep track of that. Okay, next were going to need to create a card component. So im going to remove this and create a card component and lets also import CN function. And this card comes from components. UI.

9:18:53
And if the, you, if this specific reply is a, or this comment is a reply, then were going to give it the following styles, which is, well, kind of indent it a little bit more from the left side and well, give it border of none. Okay, if not, well, give it border, one pixel and the specific border with a padding. Okay, nice.

9:19:14
Now, inside this were going to first create a div, or this is actually for the avatar, right, the avatar section. So in inside this, hit enter. And were going to create a div. And inside the div were going to have avatar and the users name. So, div avatar and the users name instead of paragraph. So, go ahead and import this component as well. Just like this. Nice.

9:19:37
And please pause and type these class names as well. But here were just going to have the authors image itself in there. So, we can show what the, what the users icon looks like. I see an error here. So, let me try to see if I can solve this. Error On, defined is not an object. Author is not being passed in. So, let me go back and let me quickly pass in these props.

9:19:58
So, it doesnt scream at me anymore. So, I'm going to say, right here, comment is a comment, comment ID. And I'm going to get this in just a second as well. But just for now, the key is the ID as well, the author. I'm just going to pass in values. And now, we need to capture that information, right? Where are we going to get the data? Well, we need to get the data from.

9:20:19
Get video comments. So, im going to go ahead and say, get video comments, or actually, let me create it in the other server action file. So, open up your folder structure. You want to go down all the way up here, and you want to say, export const. Get video comments equal to an arrow function. This is going to be an async function, and this needs the ID, which is a string.

9:20:44
And in here, first thing were going to do is have a tr catch block, and lets get the comments first. So, comments equal to await client comment. Find many. Okay, were going to invoke this. And down here were going to say, where, where, and just please type with me. Okay, so dont make any spelling errors here were going to have an or condition and were going to say the video ID is as follows.

9:21:09
Or we need the comment ID. So, the comment ID as follow is as follows as well. Okay, so comment ID is the following ID. Okay, and then after this were going to, to say, the comment ID is null. Okay, cool. Now, after this were going to need to include the reply and the user info. So im going to say, include reply. And for this, we need to include the user true.

9:21:37
And im going to say, user in here as well. True for this comment itself. Okay, nice. Now, if everything is successful, and we got responses, well return 200. So, if comments and comments length is, is successful then, and its greater than zero, then, well, return 200 with that data. And if not, return 44 here, and return 400 inside this error. Okay, lets go back now.

9:22:01
And now that we h have the server action done, lets go ahead and use the Usequery component. Sorry, the Usequery hook to fetch this data. Okay, but I think we also have to create a prefetch. Im, not entirely sure, lets see if we need it. So, video ID were going to pass it in here, lets import use query, dat data, and get video comments. Okay, so it says, comment is not available.

9:22:29
Thats because we need to do the same Type casting and renaming our data. Right, so, were going to say data is going to be comments and were destructuring that from data. Now, it says, the right side of the argument cannot be destructured. And the reason is because we havent, first, we need to create these props as well. So, let me go ahead and grab this Typescript, prop.

9:22:49
And again, you can scroll down to types, and at the bottom here, I'm going to say video comment, props is going to be data. And in that were going to have user with the ID, email, first name, last name, created at clerk, ID, the image trial, and the first view, or null. And here, the reply is going to be, this comment replies, props.

9:23:11
Okay, so you can pass that in there, which is also going to have the ID comment created at comments, ID, user, ID, and video ID. And thats an array of all of these. Okay, so, please pause and type that, or you can copy it from Github. And im going to get this in here. So, now, this is no longer going to also throw some errors. So, how do we need? How do we get this data?

9:23:31
Well, we are going to need to first make a fetch, right? So, first, we need to make the prefetch request. So, what im going to do here is im going to open up my folder structure. Okay. And I'm going to scroll to where I find. I think I can put this inside. Let me just think, guys, give me a second. Maybe we can just put this inside the same folder, right?

9:23:55
So, okay, just go into video page. TSX. And down here, im going to say video comments. I'm going to invoke this and pass in the video ID. Okay, so this is the prefetch request. So, video comments, get video comments and pass in the video ID. Okay, and now, inside our preview page, right here, im also going to do the same thing in here.

9:24:16
Okay, so now that error is gone, but were still having the cannot find comment error. So, im going to go back into to activities. And I see the comment here is renamed to comment. Okay, so we have. Okay, so essentially, what we need to do is we need to render out a comment, right? So, for now, im going to say comments. Map. And for each of these, im going to render out the comment itself.

9:24:42
And here, im going to get this comment. Okay, so lets see if this throws. Okay, no more errors, and undefined is not an object if evaluating contents comments. Map. Okay, so it looks like this data returned. Undefined. Okay, so were not able to loop over them. So, let me see if we can fix this. All right, guys, so I had to make some changes here. It looks like something was broken.

9:25:09
So, the first thing was inside our create comment and reply, action down here. First, we need to put this inside an if block, because if we dont, do it, and the user provides, and were essentially providing an optional comment ID, right, so, this is, this is not required. So, if its undefined were going to send Undefined into this call, and its not going to work.

9:25:30
So, if that comment ID was provided, that means the, the entry already exists, and its just a reply. So then we can do this step. Okay, if not, of course, we need to create a new comment. So, thats why outside the if statement were going to do this down below. Okay, then the next thing is the get video comments.

9:25:50
So, I made some changes here, which is essentially down here, I had return 200. And I think it was inside a an if condition, which is, if comments exist, then only if comments are greater than zero, are we going to return that. But thats not true because we want the comments, which is going to be a default array to be returned, regardless. Okay, so just return 200 of and also return the comments as the data.

9:26:18
Okay, nice. So, now, when you try to create a comment here, here, you see its showing that little component with the user icon, right? Thats exactly what we want. Okay, cool. Nice. Now, im going to get out of this. So, get out right here and lets go back to our component main component, our form, sorry, I meant to say the, the comment card. So, im going to go into the comment card component, just like this.

9:26:45
And now I can add the message as well, cuz, right now, I only have the avatar. So, lets go ahead and add that in. So, after this div guys right here, im going to create a div. And inside the div, a paragraph. Okay, so div and paragraph, just like this. And let me try to refresh. Okay, so I just had to spin up the server once more.

9:27:02
And now, you can see right here, we have the image, we have the users name, and we have the message itself, right? Honestly, you could remove whatever you want, cuz. If, if you know, someone whos, not, does not have an account is trying to comment, then you want to, of course, show anonymous, right? I'm going to leave all of that up to you. I dont really care about if im having the users name or not.

9:27:27
I think what would be cool is when the user tries to comment, and if they dont have an account, then we can prompt them to sign up, right? So you can get more signups for your application as well. So, super cool feature. Okay, next, you want to check if this is a reply.

9:27:42
So, down here, if this is a reply, im sorry, if this is not a reply, then were going to return a div just like this. And again, here were checking if this is not a reply, then were going to return a button here. Okay, just like this, and were going to say reply to this message. So, let me open this. Okay, and we also need the comment form.

9:28:04
So, im going to bring back this comment form real quick. All right. And it says, use DAT picker. Why do I have this component? I'm, not actually using this. Okay, so, first thing is, I'm going to change this component to use client, because I'm using some use states in here. Not sure if thats causing the issue or not. Probably thats probably not it. Let me see. Guys, just give me a second.

9:28:30
Okay, the button is from the wrong folder, its supposed to come from.components, folder. Okay. So lets go back into the activity. So, you see, I can click on this. And when I do its going to open up the response or the comment form. Thats pretty much it. Okay, nice. So, let me go ahead and refresh.

9:28:49
Again, the next thing is, I also changed the width and height here to six pixels to six, sorry, width, six and height six on the avatar. So, its slightly smaller. And for the reply button, im trying to see if I can put it H, just give me a second. Guys, let me see what I can do here. All right, never mind.

9:29:07
Well, I thought I could put this reply button up here, but then its just going to change a whole bunch of stuff. And looking at the Figma mockups, it looks a little similar, so I think were good to go. Okay, so, if you click on reply, its going to show a message here. And now you can respond back to this one.

9:29:24
Okay, so again, in here, if this message is a reply, then were going to be rendering this. And if the user tried to click on the on reply button, then were going to be returning either the comment form, or if they havent yet, then, well, show the button itself. Okay, cool.

9:29:41
Next, if we have some replies, we also want to map over those response responses, and we want to render them out down here, maybe with a small indent, right, so were going to say reply length, if its greater than zero, then were going to show a div here, and then were going to say, reply, map were going to get the reply in here, and then for the comment card, were going to, response were going to provide is a reply.

9:30:06
And for reply, were going to set it to an empty array. Or maybe I might need to change that. Let me see right here. So reply is going to be comment reply. Props. I dont think we really need it, because were recursively rendering out replies in side, right. So I dont think we need it really, cuz. Yeah, okay. Thats fine.

9:30:25
And inside that, were going to put in the comment, the common ID, video, ID, key, ID, and then the author who created it. Okay, so let me go ahead and refresh. And let me test this out. Okay, so as you can see, I just responded back to this message. And just like that, I can see a button in here. I can see a response to this message down here. Okay, awesome, guys. All right, guys.

9:30:49
I finally figured out why we had that real, really ugly, looking, those rectangles that, that pretty much showed up for every single tab, right? So, first thing is, you want to go into each of these elements, right? So, let me go back and show you, right, from here. So, first click on AI tools. And why is this not taking me inside? Okay, and you're going to find a class name, right?

9:31:12
Just remove this class name on the tab content. So, essentially, the tab content was rendering, I guess, but its also rendering for, I mean, its showing a background color. I dont know how that works. But if you remove the class name and you remove the, the background color, it just removes the padding and everything that created that element itself. So its still like magic to me.

9:31:35
And I dont know, I think its just how the component works. Okay, so remove that class name. Then you want to go into video transcript, you remove it from there. If you, I mean, remove only the background color, then same thing for the activities. And here. Remove the background color as well. Okay, thats pretty much it. So, there we go. Great job. Now, I just want to quickly finish up the work in Progress flags. Cuz.

9:31:59
We only have a few more things and the payment option. And then we can move on to our electron application and the express app. Okay, so in here, first, I'm going to click on the first one thats called AI. HOOK. All right, and then we have the pay button. Send invitation. Okay, lets do that one. Okay, so why up sending invites to customers or to team members, sorry.

9:32:25
So, first thing I'm going to do is I'm just going to skim over this, so I can see what I have missed out in here. Okay, and I'm going to change my workspace, from my personal workspace to a public workspace. Okay, so I'm going to go into Prodigies University. That way, I can see this invite to workspace model.

9:32:42
And if I click on it, now, I can search for users and pretty much invite them into the application. So, let me quickly go ahead and create another user inside my app. And then, ILL, see if I can invite them into this specific workspace. All right. So, just to test if our search functionality is working, I logged in with a different user. And I created a bunch of users inside our database.

9:33:06
And now, if I switch to a public workspace, so im going to switch to PRODUCT University. Now, I can click on invite to Workspace. And im already seeing two users right away. So I can go ahead and let me see if my search functionality is also working. Awesome. There we, we go. So, this way, you can select users and invite them. But, of course, we dont have the invite button set up.

9:33:28
And I can tell based on the invite button, because theres no onclick handler. So, lets go back here. And inside the search component, if you scroll down, you're, going to notice when you click the invite button, theres nothing happening on the onclick handler, right? So, we need to complete this functionality right here. So, what were going to do is I'm going to scroll up top right here, here.

9:33:52
And where I have this mutation, the use mutation data, I'm going to need to first uncomment this. Okay, so I'm essentially calling this use mutation data. So I can make that, that, call, that API call. And to make that, I also have to pass in the server action to get the user, right. So, so im going to create invite user, this is another server action, or invite members. And I need to first invoke this.

9:34:24
Let me also shrink the screen a little bit. Okay, invite members And im going to invoke it. And inside this, im going to pass in all of the values that I have here. Okay, so first, I need, actually lets first, go ahead and create this, sorry, guys. So go into actions, and im going to go into user.

9:34:41
And first thing is, im going to say, export const, im going to put this arrow function, and this arrow function is going to take the workspace ID, the receiver ID, who is essentially the, the user, right, user ID, and then the email ID itself. And in here, first thing is, we need to do try catch. So im going to call try catch like this. And first, I need to get the current user.

9:35:06
And because im using a weit, I need to make this an async component. And after this, if theres no user, im going to return status of 404. And next, im going to look in the database and search if the sender info exists. So, I'm going to say, const sender info equal to await client user find unique.

9:35:29
I'm going to invoke this, I'm going to say, where, for the clerk ID, where the clerk ID is equal to the user ID. Okay. And I'm going to select their ID and set this to true. All right, so now that im getting this information here, I can see if the, I can say, if the senders information exist, and the ID exist on the center info, then I want to do the following.

9:35:57
So in here, im going to first grab the workspace. So, I'm going to say const workspace equal to await client workspace, doind unique, sorry, this isind unique. And I'm going to simply pass the s, im going to say where the ID is, like workspace ID, and I want to select the following info. So I want to get the name. Okay, so I'm going to say name. True.

9:36:28
Next, right, here, I'm going to say, if the workspace data exist, so if workspace exists, then im going to first create the invitation. So I'm going to say const invitation equal, await client invite, create. And in here, I'm going to essentially pass in an object, and I'm going to create the data. So I'm going to say, data like this, I'm going to pass in the sender info, which is basically the sender info ID, right?

9:37:02
And this is right up here, basically, the user thats sending the request, then im also going to pass in the request, the receivers ID, and then I need to pass in the workspace. So, which workspace were inviting the user into, and then some content. So, im going to say, you are invited to join this workspace, and workspace right here, click accept to confirm.

9:37:25
Okay, next, down here, I'm going to say select ID, and im going to set this to true. And after this down here, I also want to create a notification. So, im going to say const notification equal to await client user update. And for this, im going to pass in. So, invoke it.

9:37:49
And inside this, I need to pass in where, and I'm going to say, where the clerk ID is like, user ID, and the data that I want to create is going to be notification, and were going to set were going to create an entry in here, were going to set the content equal to, I'm going to put back ticks. And then I want to say user first name, and user, do last name, invited, dollar sign.

9:38:21
And were going to add this invitation user, that we just sent an in invitation to, which is the sender info, right? So, sender info. And what else do we have here? Let me just take a quick look. Let me see if I can get some more information. So, maybe I can get the first name, right? And last name as well. Set this to true. And now I can go down here.

9:38:46
And I can say sender info, first name, okay, into this workspace. So I'm going to say dollar sign, workspace, do name, okay. Its not required, but I just want to show you that you can send notifications just like this. Okay. And we dont really need to save this. So, I'm just going to remove it. But yeah, thats pretty much it. Now, we have created the first entry.

9:39:13
But I mean, we have pretty much sent the user an invitation, but now we have to send an email. So the user can click on the, that email, and then join. Right, so how do we do that? I'm going to show you in just a second.

9:39:25
So, right after this, the notification one right here, I'm going to first check if invitation is successful, right, after this one, guys, sorry, I made a mistake, I put it inside the object. So, if the invitation is good to go, were going to use, were going to be using node. Mailer to essentially send an email. So, open up your terminal. I'm going to open one right here.

9:39:48
And I'm going to say, BUN add, no mod, mailer like this, and go ahead and hit enter. Okay, awesome. And now that we have that installed, I'm going to create another server action. And this server action is called send email. Okay. So you can scroll down, or actually scroll up, top all the way to the top of the file, because we might need this for any other server actions, right?

9:40:11
And im going to say, export const send email. This is a server action. And this one is, well, its not really a server action, its just inside the SER action file, but its a helper thats going to help us send an email. Okay, and in here were going to need four different parameters. So, first, we need the two subject, the text and the HTML. Okay.

9:40:33
And inside this were going to first need to create our transporter. Okay, now, the transporter is also going to need an email and password. And thats some setup that I'm going to show you later on, because we have to populate our environment file. Okay, but essentially, what we need to do in here is, were going to say const transporter equal to node. Mailer. And we have to also install. I'm, sorry, import node. Mailer.

9:41:00
So, I'm going to say Import node. Mailer. Just like this. What seems to be the issue here. Okay, so, its telling me to add this types for Node. Mailer. So, I'm going to open up my terminal. I'm going to say, bun add. I'm going to paste exactly what they gave me. And hit enter. Okay, and lets just, lets just give this a second. All right, that solved our problem. Awesome. Awesome. Now, im going to say Node.

9:41:22
Mailer. Doc, creat Transporter. Notate. Create account. Create transport. And inside this first, I'm going to create a host. And this host is going to be SMTPgmail.com. And then down here were going to have the port. And this port is going to be set to 465. Then we also need secure set to true. And then were going to need the off credentials. Okay.

9:41:50
Now, for now, I'm just going to pass in the user, which is user, the mailer node, mailer email, and the node, mailer password. Okay. But, again, we need to populate these values, because we dont really have them, but I just want to provide them in here. So, that way, we can go to our environment and we can populate it with those two values. Okay, next, I'm going to create something called mail options.

9:42:15
Just put all these values inside this, so I can return it back. And I'm going to return the trans, along with the mail options. Okay, so, lets scroll all the way down, down here, into invitation. And inside this invitation. Now, I can use that send mail function, helper function that we just created. So, im going to say, const transporter, or first lets say send mail, send email lets invoke that. Okay.

9:42:44
And now, the second one is going to be mail options. And the first in here, and the first parameter is, lets see its, the two. So I'm going to put the email ID, and then I need to put the subject, right, the subject, and then the text. So, I'm going to say, you got an invitation, right, like this. And next, I'm just going to create another string in here. And this is the text itself.

9:43:16
So, lets go ahead and put something in here. Okay, have a huge space here. So, let me fix that. Nice. And then im going to need to put something else after this. What is, this Lets see, we need the HTML. Okay. And this is going to be a link tag. Thats going to take the user to a special page called invitation inside our application. Okay, well, create that as well.

9:43:42
But in here, first, im going to create an anchor tag. Just pause the video and type with me. Okay. I'm also going to explain, dont worry about it. But essentially, its anchor tag, like this, and were going to have HRF set to dollar sign. Process environment. NextT, public host, URL. Because, when we deploy, we want to use this URL, right.

9:44:03
And then were going to use slash invite, invitation ID, and the style is set to background color were just going to use black for now. And then just padding five pixel, 10 pixels right here. This is top and bottom, this is left and right. Okay. And if you dont know the syntax, that means you dont know CSS All right, it really sucks. The tailwinds really changed a lot of stuff.

9:44:26
But this is the traditional CSS guys. Okay, hope you remember. And then here is border radius. I'm just going to set it to 10 pixels. And im going to say accept, invite. Okay. You can make this as pretty as you want. I dont have too much time to waste here. So, this is more than enough. Okay. Now, once this is done, we have to go ahead and send this email.

9:44:45
So, right here, after this const at the bottom, im going to say transporter, sendmail, and im going to pass in the mail options. And its going to take in a callback function here. So, im going to create an async function. And inside this, I'm going to pass, im going to get access to the error and information. So, lets grab that. And first, if theres any error in sending this, then im going to consolelog.

9:45:14
And first, im going to put a little le Red icon, like this. And after this, im going to say error message. Okay, error, message. Awesome. And if not else were going to say Consolelog, and im going to pass a green icon. So, im going to say, or just say check for now, and im going to say email sent plus. We also have to have the info. So im going to pass in the info as well.

9:45:47
Cool. Now, after this down here, I'm going to return a 200,100, saying invitation sent. And after this, 4,400 saying invitation failed. And after this one, 44, saying, workspace itself is not found. And after all of this down here, I'm going to say 404 recipient is not found. And down here, I'm going to say 400. Oops, something went wrong. Now, lets uncomment. Im, sorry, unlock this browser.

9:46:14
And now we can go ahead and use this hook in here, or use this server action. So, I'm going to import the server action real quick. And now, inside this, I have to pass in first, the workspace ID, or yeah, workspace ID, then I need data receiver ID. And then I need data email. Okay, so, im going to pass all these values in here. And that should be it.

9:46:36
Let me also check the spelling invite member. Okay, good. I dont want to mess up any of the queries query, or the mutation keys. Okay, so, now that this is done, if we scroll all the way to the bottom here, in our onclick handler, we have to essentially pass in the mutate function, right? So, im going to invoke mutate, like this. And im going to pass in the receiver and the email, okay.

9:47:01
And behind the scenes, its going to use that, and its going to send that for us. Now, for this, im going to change this to is pending. Okay, and is pending comes from here. So, lets just give that a second to. Okay, cool. Nice. So, now we pretty much have this set. But again, we need to set up node. Mailer on Gmail, right? We need that email and the password stuff.

9:47:22
So, let me go ahead and show you how to get all that information. Please follow these instructions. This is how you can get your app password, because we are going to be sending emails through our Google accounts. Okay, so first thing you need to do is, of course, get your email, right Get that ready. Then you want to sign in to Google, and you want to click on the manage your Google account.

9:47:46
Now, please keep in mind, this might or probably hasnt changed, but this might change in the future. Okay, all you have to do is just make a Google search and youll find it. Okay, its not the end of the world. All right, its still going to be there. So, dont be confused, if something changed. Okay, its the same exact idea. All you have to do is create an app password. Okay.

9:48:05
So click on, manage your Google account. And then the next page is, its going to take you into the Google account itself. So, click on security, right in here. Then its going to show you, if you scroll to the bottom, its going to show you this twostep verification. You have to get this set up. Okay, this is done to prevent people from spamming, or some fraudulent abuse. And thats why they have two factor authentication here.

9:48:30
So, go ahead and set this up. If you dont set it up, this will not work. Okay, just keep that in mind. So, once you set up twostep verification, of course, you're going to see a green check mark, like, you know, like I do right here. And then you're going to go back to your Google account, same way. So go back here and click on Google accounts.

9:48:49
Then you want to, in search, you want to search app passwords inside the search field, and then click on this one right here. Okay, thats going to take you into a page that looks like this. And all you have to do is down here, you want to put the app password, sorry, the app name, and just hit create. So, I already went ahead and said, opal web prodigies, do the same thing. And then hit create.

9:49:11
And its going to give you a password, you're going to copy that password. And you're going to populate the respective environment variable inside environment file. Okay, I am not going to show you that, because thats private information, but ILL, also delete it. It doesnt really matter. I'm going to go ahead and delete this after this project. But, I just want to let you know, that you're not supposed to share this with anybody else.

9:49:34
Okay, any of the environment files are supposed to be kept private. I'm only if im sharing anything with you. Its just because I dont. I mean, its not that important. Or I either deleted it. Okay, so, please be careful with all your environment variables. Do not push it to your Github, or make an, A stupid error like that. Okay. All right, thats pretty much it. Okay, so now, I think we have almost everything set up.

9:49:57
We can go ahead and try. I'm going to invite this person. If it doesnt work, ill, come back and see how we can fix this. But, im, first thing is, im going to open the terminal so I can see any console messages. And im going to click on invite. Okay, awesome. But, it, it shows 200 here, but it said error. So, let me see whats the problem, guys, all right, guys.

9:50:19
So, it turns out I just needed, needed to reset the server. That was the first thing. So, I just quit everything in my terminal, and I restart it once more. Then, the other thing I noticed is this return statement. I think I accidentally put it inside the transporter block. So, inside the callback function, so you want to bring it down below, right in here. Okay, so make sure you do that.

9:50:38
And also, once you update your environment file, go ahead and reset everything. Okay, you want to go and quit your terminal, and then restart that one as well. And then up top in here, everything else looked fine. I really know why that was happening. Everything else looks per perfectly. Okay. And I went ahead and also sent an email to this person. And let me Al, just show you here. So it says success. Invite sent, nice.

9:51:02
And I already have the email. But, you see, I just received another one, right, so I can click on this right here. And, as you can see, I just got that email right here. Okay. Now, if I click on it, its going to take me to the correct link. But the problem is this link does not have the public QL. Okay.

9:51:21
So, because we dont have that, its not going to take us to that specific login page. Okay, if not, I mean, if its in production, then its going to work. But just because of this, its not sending us to the correct URL. And it says invalid URL. Okay, so were on the right track. Great job so far.

9:51:40
Okay, so, I just went into my environment file, and I set the next public host URL to local host 3000 and slash, okay, I dont even think we need this. But let me see if I just add this one right here. And also, dont forget to start up your terminal. I think I already have the auto reboot. So, its going to solve that problem for me. I dont have to care about it.

9:52:03
But, down here, its going to just render out that address, right. So, I think putting a slash here would be better. So, we have HTTP slash HM. Okay, I think this should work, lets just give it a shot. Okay, so im going to invite another user once more. And let me go to the email address and take a look at the email. Okay, nice.

9:52:29
And I think this is the one, so looks like, or maybe this is the one. Which one is it? Exactly. All right. So, I think I need to restart my server. Never mind. Let me do that guys. All right. Awesome, guys. So, it worked. All I had to do was add HTTP. Do like this, turns out that it doesnt added for you.

9:52:51
I dont know why it was so misleading, because if you look at the link above, right, if you click on the accept link, its showing HTTP. I dont know why they did that. But anyway, so right here, if you click on this link, it takes you to local host 3000 SL invite, and it has a unique ID. So we can use that ID to pretty much give the user access.

9:53:11
Okay, so lets go ahead and set that up. So open up your folder structure. You want to shrink the workspace folders. Okay, so click on this one. And then you want to create an invite route. And in, oops, I made a spelling error, invite. And then inside this, you want to create a dynamic folder called invite ID. And, of course, inside this, a page. TSX.

9:53:33
And now im going to return a component like this, and call this page. Okay, now, inside this first, were going to get access to PRAM. So lets go ahead and grab the invite ID from our PAMs, and lets also destructure it right here. Okay, so PAMs and the invite ID, now, down here, first thing is, were going to need to accept the invite. So for this were going to need a server action.

9:53:59
Okay, so let me say const also change this to an async function, because were going to need it anyway. And im going to say, const maybe, ILL call this invitation, or invite equal to await accept, invite, and im going to invoke this. And im going to need to pass in the invitation ID. Okay, so lets copy this.

9:54:20
And im going to go into users scroll to the bottom, and I'm going to say export, const accept invitation, or accept invite. And this is going to receive the invite ID, which is going to be a string. Okay, and this is of course going to need to be an async arrow function. And now, inside this lets go ahead and use a tr catch. And im going to say const user equal A8 current user.

9:54:47
So, we want to make sure that user is authenticated. And if there is no user, then were going to return status of 44. Okay. And if everything else looks good, were going to say invitation equal to A8 client invite, find unique, and we want to find where the ID is, like the invitation ID. And we also want to select some information from this, right? So, were going to get the workspace ID of the user.

9:55:21
I mean, of the workspace itself, from this invitation, and then were going to get the receiver information. And from that, we only need to select the clerk ID. Okay, so I'm going to say clerk ID, and set this to true. Next, I want to make sure that the user that is signed in is the same user who was who received the invitation, right?

9:55:45
So im going to make sure that the user ID, so if the user ID, ID, ID is not equal to the invitation, so if there were someone else, then we want to return A401 Okay, so I'm going to say receiver, do clerk ID. So, if its not the same user, then we want to return status of not status, bar status of 401. Okay. But if everything looks good, were going to accept the invite.

9:56:16
So were going to say accept, invite equal to await client, invite, do update. And in here were going to set for this one. So where the ID is like the same ID in here, so invitation ID, no, its invite ID, and were going to update the data and were going to set accepted to true. Okay, awesome.

9:56:44
And then after that, if we need to update, we also need to update the users information, right, because we need to add the, add a, add the user as a member of a workspace. So were going to say, const create member, or update member equal to client, or await client dot, or I have a better way to do.

9:57:10
This, guys, lets use a transaction, because we dont want this to end up in a race condition, right? So were going to say client, user dot update, and were going to update this user info. So, where this, their clerk ID is the same as the user ID. And for data that were going to update, we want to specifically update the members.

9:57:36
And we want to add, that means we want to create a new workspace under their membership. So, workspace ID and were going to set that to set that to invitation, workspace ID. Okay, nice. Now, now, down here, to avoid this race condition, were going to use a transaction. And if you dont know what this is, you can take a look. You can research in prisma. Okay, so im going to say members. Transaction.

9:58:02
Okay, and this is equal to await. Client, do Dollar sign, transaction, why is that not showing up? Okay, dollar sign, transaction, and you have to provide an array of different values, right? So, here we made two calls. So lets go ahead and pass those in. So accept invitation and create member, sorry, not create member, its update member. Okay, update member. Nice. So, and make sure this one has await as well.

9:58:34
Okay, now, if we have a response here, and the response is going to look like this were going to say, if the members transaction is true, were going to return 200 response. Okay, if not, well, return a 400, and a 400 right here. Here. Now, lets go back to our component and lets import our accept, invite, server action.

9:58:56
And now, that we have accepted the users invite, and also verified, the user even has an invitation in the first place, were going to check the status. So, if invite status is equal to 404, do we even have a 404? Let me take a quick look, okay, right here, that means theres no user, not verified. And 400, right? Okay. So, if its 404 then were going to return and redirect the user to the signin page.

9:59:26
Okay. And this one comes from next navigation. So im going to return them to AU signin. And then after that, down here, if its 401, that means they are not authorized to see the page, im going to say, if invite status is for a one, then go ahead and return a div with an H2 and a paragraph.

9:59:45
Okay, so im going to say div height, screen, like this, return div hide screen, container, flex column gap of gap of two, and justify, center item center. So, we have an H2 and a paragraph tag. So, im, instead of saying this, actually, im going to say, not authorized. Okay, much better. And thats it.

10:00:09
Now, down here, if everything was good, and the user was pretty much, you know, they have access, theyre verified to access this information were going to see if its 200, and then were going to redirect the user to a callback. Okay, awesome. And, the callback route will essentially handle routing them to their first workspace. Thats pretty much it. So, now lets go ahead and give this a shot, and see what happens.

10:00:40
And I also want to make sure that the user thats signed in is the exact user that got this request. So, just give me one second guys. All right, so im, im going to go ahead and click on this link. So, I just sent a new invite back to myself, and just to make sure theres no confusion, I also deleted all the entries from our Prisma studio. Okay, and I sent a brand new invite.

10:01:02
So, now, if I click on, this lets see what happens. So, it takes me to local host 3000 sl invite. And something looks wrong. Its saying 404 cannot find. Let me take a look. Guys, just give me a second. Okay, so the problem here is I created this invitation route inside the workspace ID. So, you want to bring it to the root of our app directory right here.

10:01:27
And you want to move it in there and lets see. So, we have invitation. Okay, nice. And that should do the job. So, let me go ahead and see what happened in here. Okay. Item workpace. Let me try this one more time. Okay. All right. So, it almost worked. It took the user to the callback route, and it took the user to the dashboard route, but something happened here. The ID was undefined.

10:01:57
So, let me see what happened here. All right, guys. So, we got to make a couple changes. So go into your sidebar index, TSX. And now, wherever you find the workspace do workspace, do members like this, right? You want to refer to the workspace here with a capital S. Okay, so change this before. This had used to be, I think, work space. Like this. Change it to capital S.

10:02:22
You're going to see red squiggly lines in the in the beginning. Thats fine because we need to change the types as well. Okay. But first change that in here. So, I chang it here, here, here, and here as well. Okay, then theres one more place, I think its above this somewhere, right here. No, not right there, where. Okay, right here. So workspace members. MAP, and I returned the same thing.

10:02:47
Okay, so workspace, capital S, capital S, capital S. Now, we need to go into the types. So we can change that. So im going to click on workspace props. And inside this, this used to be small letter. So I just changed it to capital as well. So that should solve your problem. And the other problem is because I sent like probably four or five emails to the user, they were accepted into that account four times.

10:03:13
Okay, so thats something that you might also want to prevent from happening. But apart from that, everything else looks great. So, great job so far. So, for example, if I create a folder inside my prodes, university workspace right here, just like this. And if I go into the other user, you're going to see, theyre going to see this in here as well. Now, this is not real time, okay Its not real time.

10:03:40
The reason is because we are using React query, okay, react query is super, super powerful. Its just a little annoying to work with, just like Redux. But the benefit of it is much more than you were than if you were just using Axios. So, essentially, if you hop out of the page, or if the screen goes out of focus it, refetch data, right? So, it almost feels like things are in real time.

10:04:06
So with the power of react query, and optimistic UI, you can create the illusion of realtime data inside your application. Okay, but yeah, thats pretty much it. So, this section works as well. Great job. Now, we can also see the private workspace in here. And, of course, this is private to this user only. Okay, so they can also swap back and forth. Nice. Looks amazing, guys. Great job. All right.

10:04:34
Now, the next thing we want to do is, I notice theres another work in progress flag. So, I'm going to go ahead and set this up. Okay, so lets remove this. And the first thing we want to do is, lets keep this, lets move this up, top. This is good to go.

10:04:51
And first thing is we need to make a request to essentially send an email for the first view, right So you're going to send an email to the user, the owner of this workspace, saying someone just viewed your video, and well, also send them a notification. So, im going to say, notify, first view. And this is going to be a new server action that we need to complete create.

10:05:13
So, im going to copy this server action, and also, I'm passing the video ID in here. So we can send that link, or whatever we need to do, essentially, right. So, lets go back into our, into our server action file, right up here. And inside workspace, im going to scroll to the bottom, and im going to say, export, const, send email for first view.

10:05:40
And this is going to be an async function, and this is going to take in the video ID. Now, inside here, im going to have a tr catch block. And inside this tr catch. First, I need to get the current user. So, im going to say, await get current user, if theres no user return A44 error, and then im going to go into my database.

10:06:01
So, im going to go in and then find a user with this user ID. And im going to essentially get their first view. Okay, so I'm going to say, const first view settings equal to await client, user, find unique. And inside this, im going to pass in where, and im going to say clerk ID is user ID, and down here, I'm going to select the following information. So, I need the first view.

10:06:39
And im going to set this to true. And now I can look into this and say, if the first view settings do first view exist, sorry. If this does not exist, then I'm just going to return A44, right, or just return this is fine as well. And if everything else, I mean, if, if essentially, we need to set that, then here, im going to update that video.

10:07:09
Okay, so im going to say const video equal await client video. Find unique. And, and for this specific video, ID, im going to update the following information, or actually im not updating, guys, sorry, im going to grab the video itself. All right, so sorry about this. So, im going to say select, and in here, I need the following information. So I need title, I also want the views of the video.

10:07:43
And then I also want the user information. And im going to get your email. Okay. Then after this, im going to check if the views, if the video views are zero or, and theres something in here and the video views are zero, then im going to update the views. Okay. And im also going to send a notification to the user saying that someone view the video. So im going to say, await client video update.

10:08:12
And inside this, im going to say where the ID is, video ID, and im going to update the data. And im going to set the views. Why is this not? Okay. Sorry. Okay, let me do this. And im going to say views in here. And essentially, I want to add this. So, im going to say video views. Hello plus one. Okay, nice.

10:08:42
The next thing we got to do in here is we have to send that email. So, im going to say, send email, and im going to import this. Okay. And H. Okay, so, I think this is a slightly different version. So, just give me one second Guys, okay, so first thing is, I have to say, await here. So await, send email. And now, I have to pass in this data.

10:09:08
So, if theres no video, then im going to return here, and im going to say, video user, and were going to get the email, then were going to send a the, what, what is this called? Essentially, I think this, the subject, right, so were going to send the subject and then were going to send some text, and you can send HTML if you want. Im not going to waste any time, but thats pretty much it.

10:09:32
And now, we have to send this email, right, so, this was setting up the settings, getting mailing options and the transporter. Now, we need to send the email itself. So were going to say, send mail, and let me see if I did it the same way in the other components as well. Okay, so I said transporter. Oh, this is the, this, a different one. Okay, transporter. Sendmail. All right. And then, okay, cool.

10:10:00
So, transporter, sendmail were going to pass in the mail options, and we need a function in here. So, I'm, just going to call an arrow function, and this is going to give us access to error, and the info. Okay. And now, inside this, im going to say, if theres an error were going to consolelog the error message, right. And after this, im going to say else.

10:10:27
And in here, I'm going to say, const notifications notification equal a8 client user update. And in here, I'm going to say where the clerk ID, clerk ID is like user ID. Okay. And whats the issue here? Okay, this needs to be an AC function. And after this, if theres no error, then down here, were going to need to also update some data. So, I'm going to say data is going to be notification.

10:11:01
And in here were going to create the following data. Why do I keep typing, P. My fingers are mismatched guys. So im going to say content. And in here, im going to say mail, options, text. Okay, nice. Now that I have this, if the notifications exist, so right after this, then im going to return 200. So notification. Okay, cool. And thats it.

10:11:31
And then, if theres an error, im just going to print this error out so I can see whats going on. And thats pretty much it. Okay, so, lets go back now to this component. And this is our sidebar component, actually. So, im going to go into the send mail. Okay, this one, which is a video preview components, and im going to import this server action.

10:11:54
Next, were going to have a use effect down here, that is essentially going to look for the video views. And depending on that, if its equal to zero, then, were going to notify the first view. So were going to call this function in here. Okay, so im going to say, use effect like this. And if its equal to zero, notify, and then were also going to return this. Thats pretty much it.

10:12:16
Okay, so, ILL, try and see what happens here. Let me just take a look. So, right now, im on this account, let me go into Prodigies University, or I think I have, I have one in here, right? Okay, cool. So, if I view this, its probably going to do the same thing. Let me just take a quick look. Okay, nice. I just received an email saying, your video, prodigies university is just watched or something.

10:12:45
Okay, nice, great job. And just to show you that right here, as you can see, I just opened the email. It was just sent 0o minutes ago. Okay, awesome. Okay, and I made another quick change, which is inside the global header. In here, I added if the path and the path should also not be equal to, should not include video in the title. Okay, so not Path name includes video.

10:13:12
And down here, im just saying path name, that includes the video. If this is true, then im going to render an empty string. So im removing the ugly title. Okay, cuz, I realize I dont really need it anymore. Okay, so yeah, I can go ahead and remove that. And also, same thing. And thats pretty much it. And then you can render my library if as the else option. And you can also remove this one.

10:13:36
So based on this, so you can say, if, path name, video, if this is true, then you can render out an empty string, or you can render out the workspace title. Okay Its not really important, right? Or you can also look at which type of path name we are looking at. So, if it includes the preview, then, you know, you can change it.

10:14:03
All right, so this is a good time to pretty much set up stripe. So lets go ahead and get started with this part. So im going to remove this button in here. And as the footer, im going to create another button called the payment button. Okay, so let me also see if, okay, I think this should be fine. So, im going to call this payment button. Okay, like this. Awesome.

10:14:30
And im going to open up my folder structure, and im going to create that payment button in here. So, im going to say payment. Dasb button and index. TSx. And im going to return this and call this payment button. Okay, and I can pretty much just replace whatever I have with this button for now, and then im going to essentially put the logic inside the payment button itself.

10:14:57
So, the first thing is, were going to need a, a hook called use subscription. And this use subscription, HOOK is going to essentially help us get the user to subscribe. Its also going to, you know, take them to whatever page we need to send them to. And this time, were not going to be using the custom payment form, because I already did it in the past four videos. So, you can take a look at that.

10:15:19
If you want to learn how to build custom forms, custom payment flows, and all that kind of fun stuff. Okay, this video is only the important stuff. Remember, your goal, when you're, building a SAS, is only to get an MVP out. Okay, IVE worked with so many students and you guys think your application should look beautiful before you go live.

10:15:39
Trust me, if you are not embarrassed with your SAS application, when you go live, you built way too much. Okay. And, this is a pretty decent experience. I still know SAS business owners who till date still have the S, the not SAS checkout. They have the stripe checkout page, right? They havent even upgraded that section, because people are still, you know, people find value in your service.

10:16:06
So, as long as you have something thats solving a problem, and you're, helping people, and you genuinely care about people and not just a sale. And your solution is not just a, want its a need, you will sell like crazy. Okay, but all you need first, is to get an MVP out there as fast as possible.

10:16:27
Now, theres more to this, like the illusion funnel and the sell first strategy, and so much more that I have broken down inside Prodigies University in a course called the ultimate SAS course. Now, this may not be for you. If you are not a SAS business owner or a SAS developer, you might not want to start your own SAS company. You might probably just want to build fun applications like this, and thats totally fine as well.

10:16:52
But, if you are serious about your SAS journey, and you want to start a SAS, the right way, get guidance from hundreds of SAS business owners, including myself and our team. So, you can get technical support, pretty much whatever you need through weekly coaching calls and unlimited courses. Then, you can join Prodigies University and learn from there. Okay, awesome. Anyway,s, lets proceed now.

10:17:16
So, the first thing is, I'm going to say, I'm going to create this HOOK. So, this HOOK is going to give us access to, ONs, subscribe and is processing, and its called use subscription hook. So, scroll down here, and I'm going to create this hook here called Use subscription, typescript. And in here, first, export a variable called Use subscription. Or sorry, actually, yeah, use subscription. And this is an arrow function.

10:17:49
And this is first going to need a state in here. Okay, so were going to say const is processing and set is processing. And this is going to be equal to use state, and were going to invoke that and were going to pass in false. Okay, next, we have to also create the unsubscribe function. And this unsubscribe function is essentially what were going to return back to that component.

10:18:16
Okay, so, you're going to say, on subscribe equal to async. And in here, we want to pass in the following. So, first were going to set is processing to true. Okay, awesome. And then down here, we need to get a response. Were going to say const response equal a weit axio. So, right here, only here, im going to be using axios.

10:18:40
So, go ahead and say, BUN, add axios, like this, and go ahead and hit enter. And now, in here, im going to say axios, if it, I dont, think its going to let me import. So, im going to say import Axos from Axios. Okay, nice. And down here, im going to say axios, like this. I'm going to invoke it.

10:19:04
And in here, I have to also tell which method which it, whether its get post or whatever, right? So, I'm going to say get, and we need to go into the API folder and inside the payment folder. Okay. And this is the route thats essentially going to give us an endpoint. Okay, we need to render out that endpoint essentially. Were going to use wind, windowlocationhref and were going to push the user to that to that location.

10:19:33
Okay. Thats pretty much it. So in here were going to say, if not off, if response DAT status equal to 200, then what were going to do is, were going to say, return, were going to say, windowlocationhref is going to be equal to, were going to put quotations in here. And im going to say dollar sign, the curly bracket responsedata do session URL. Okay, please dont make an error in here with the spellings.

10:20:11
Copy this correctly. Okay, its session s, SS, I, O, ncore URL. Okay. Then once this is done, we can set is processing to false. And down here, we can return the value, which is on. Subscribe and is processing. Okay, nice. Awesome. Now, lets go into our folder structure And I'm going to go into our API folder. If we have one, I dont think we have one. All right, I thought that actually comes by default anyway.

10:20:43
So, you're going to go ahead and create an API folder in here. So under app, I'm going to say API, just like this. And inside that, I'm going to create a folder and this folder. What did I just do here? I opened the settings file. Sorry about that. So inside this API folder, I'm going to create another folder. And this one is called payment. Okay. And inside this, we need a route. Typescript file.

10:21:10
So, inside this file, all were going to do is first were going to get the current user, and then were also going to get our stripe keys, right? And, ILL show you how to do all that stuff. Dont worry about it. And once we do that, were just going to create something called, as a checkout session.

10:21:29
Okay, were going to pass in all the values that we need, such as the mode, the price, the quantity, all that stuff, and then were going to essentially create a checkout session, and return that session with the session URL to the front end. Okay, thats pretty much it. So, this is going to be a get endpoint. So, dont forget about that. So, export async function, why cant I type today. Okay, function.

10:22:02
And this is going to be called get. Okay. So, function like this. Nice. Let me shrink this, so you guys can see clear. And first thing is, im going to get the current user. So, im going to say, await. Get current user, just like this. Nice. And if theres no user lets return 404. Okay, and this is next response. And you can import it from next server.

10:22:26
And then after this, we need to get our price. Now, we dont have the price ID yet. Thats totally fine. All we have to do is go into our stripe dashboard. And we need to just create the stripe price ID for a product. Okay. And then were going to get a price ID from that. And then we can just set that in here. But for now, this is all we need.

10:22:44
Okay, just say like this, and then well, populate it inside our environment file. Okay, now were going to need stripes to open up your terminal, were going to say, bun, add stripe like this, and hit enter. And now, thats it, thats all you need for stripe. Okay, and then right here, you're going to say, import stripe from stripe. And now we need to create our checkout session.

10:23:05
So were going to say, const, sorry, where am I typing? Okay, const session equal to a8 stripe, like this. Okay. And, oh, I need to first create a client, guys, sorry about that. So const stripe equal, new stripe, and im going to invoke it. And of course, we dont have this right now, but I have to pass in our stripe, client secret key. Okay, so I'm going to say process, environment, client secret key as string.

10:23:39
Okay. Next down here, I'm going to invoke. I'm going to call stripe. And I'm going to say checkout sessions, creates. And inside this session, im going to say mode, and I want it to be a subscription payment. And next, I'm going to create some line items. And this is going to be an array of multiple items or just one. So we just need one right now.

10:24:05
So for this, I'm going to pass in our price and the quantity. So, price, quantity, one. Thats it. Next, after this array, we need to pass in the success URL. So, once everything is completed, we want to, we want to send the user back to the payment page. Okay, and this is a custom page, of course, which we havent created, and its going to be inside our, our main route.

10:24:27
Okay, so inside the route, inside app. So, success URL is going to be our, our public host, URL SL payment session ID. And thats going to be equal to the checkout session ID. Okay, and this checkout session ID is essentially what we get from, from stripe. Okay, next in here were going to take the cancel URL and were going to pass this in here as well. This is just the payment and cancel set to true.

10:24:58
Thats it. Okay, next, if the session exists, we got everything and everything successful were going to return a next response. And we got to return JSON data. Send status, 200, the session URL. And the customer ID as well. If none of this was successful, then were going to return a 400 response. Okay, simple stuff. Not too complex. But do I see something red in here? Okay, its, because I havent completed this section yet.

10:25:21
Sorry about that. So lets go back into that component. And first thing is, I'm going to need to pass in something, right? Use subscription. Okay, I dont think it need. Oh, it doesnt need anything. All right, were good to go. So, it gives us access to this. All we have to do is get unsubscribe, and I'm going to set on, click on this button to unsubscribe.

10:25:43
So when you click on this, its essentially just going to render out that page, right? And now we also have to pass the is processing inside our loading state. Okay, nice. And now, we have our endpoint setup. We can go ahead and import this payment button. Just like this. And let me see if we need to pass some props. Okay, no. Props for this component. So, nice.

10:26:08
All right, now, all we need is lets go ahead and grab our stripe keys and our stripe ID. So, I'm going to open up my API right here. Go into route so I can keep this first thing I need is a price. So, lets go ahead and do that. Now, before we go into stripe, I just want to show you a stripe Quicklink guide that I created.

10:26:28
I put it up for the cheapest price I possibly could. Okay, so you can go ahead and grab this right now. It, its essentially all the links that you need for every single page or integration type in stripe. And trust me, when I say this stripe is massive, you need, you literally need to know how to look and where to look inside stripe in order in, in order to find what you're trying to look for.

10:26:53
Okay, so thats why I went above and beyond. And I created a simple document. Its not too complex, its just straight to the point. For example, if you're, trying to do how to accept a payment, we know exactly where to go, how to create a direct charge, how to create subscriptions and how to do stripe, connect stuff. So, this took me literally two weeks to find out.

10:27:13
And I just put it in a simple document, so it can save you a ton of time. So, if you click on that, you can purchase it. Its right here. And inside this, I also have a bonus stripe, direct support link, where essentially, you can get 247 support from their private Discord chat. Okay, so you guys are not going to find it very easily if you try to search for it.

10:27:37
But, this is the best support IVE received from stripe. And IVE put the link in here, its a little secret link. If you click its going to take you directly into their support channel, and you can get support from their tech leads. Okay, awesome. So, I went ahead and logged into stripe and make, and I also made sure that I turned it on to test mode.

10:27:57
Okay, now, first thing is I'm going to go into products. And as you can see, IVE created a bunch of products right here. I'm going to create another product, and I'm going to call this opal pay tier, okay, not T E A. Okay. And, or just say opal paid, or just say the price, right? I think our platform is, how much are we even charging? I'm just going to set $99 to make it easy and simple.

10:28:24
All right, thats what everybody charges. So, its at 99 for opal. So, I'm going to say opal 99. And down here, I have to charge $99 every single month. Okay. Now, go ahead and add this product. To create the product for, you. Click on the product, and then its going to take you into this section right here. Now, you're, going to notice a new price called this was created, right?

10:28:49
You can go ahead and copy this price ID. So, let me make sure its the exact same price, ID 107, or 1 q7 and ends with 23.1 q7 and ends with 23. Okay. So, if it will, let me copy this. Oh, man, why cant I even copy this? See all lines. Okay. I have to copy it this way. Great. Nice.

10:29:12
So, now that I have copied this, I can go into my environment, and I can populate that. Okay. So go into your environment file, and you're going to scroll down right here, you're going to find something called price ID, and just put it into that. Okay. And once you're done with this, you're going to go back into your dashboard. Okay.

10:29:34
And if you have the document, you can directly click on the stripe link, which is the dashboard link to get the API documentation. If not, this is what you have to do. So first, you have to look up for developers, then its going to take you into this page. Just note how you, theres no way you can access this page, right? So you have to search for this.

10:29:54
So, dont forget, okay, then you're going to click on API keys, and you're going to find a bunch of stuff right here. First, copy the publishable key. Okay. And paste it in here. I'm going to put it inside, quotations. And then you're going to have a secret key. So you can delete this, and you can pretty much create another key, if you want, but I already have a test key.

10:30:14
So, im going to copy this and go into your stripe, client secret key. And you can paste this in here. Okay, awesome. Now, that we have all these values, I'm also going to make sure my stripe publishable key has the right ID. Let me go ahead and take a look. Just give me one second. Okay, so we dont need that, because that one is only for, if were using custom stripe forms.

10:30:38
Okay, were just using the custom U, the default stripe page. So, I dont think we need that. But its, okay, for now, I'm just going to put it in here. Okay, now lets go back. And essentially lets just give this a shot, and lets see what happens. Okay, so, I just clicked on this button and, I see an error. So, status code of 500 API payment.

10:31:03
So, lets go ahead and take a look at that, man. I hate this. Dude, it. I literally spent a whole day a whole day trying to figure out the solution as to why im not able to upgrade a user to a pay tier. And if I tell you, the, if I tell you the problem, you're going to laugh at me.

10:31:25
But, what I did wrong was down here, I had the same key duplicated twice, and one had a value. And one did not. How stupid is that? Okay. And because of that, the, the terminal was throwing a 500. And my app was throwing a 500. And I went into stripe documentation, I went into every possible resource on the Internet to get you guys, the answer, because I was so determined that you need that I have to give you guys, the answer to this problem. All right. Well, IVE also done this in the past, the same exact issue.

10:32:00
And I, it turns out, I did it again, but I just wanted to say that was the problem. Okay, see, my goal here is, I dont care if I have to go above and beyond and spend an extra two, three days of sleepless nights to get you guys to your goals.

10:32:13
Because my goal is, I want each and every single prodigy, every, every single person whos watching this video to have the ability to monetize your code. I, im not here to teach web developers, how to code. Dont get me wrong. That is not my goal, right? My goal here is to give you SAS developers and SAS business owners, the ability to finally quit your job.

10:32:38
Because you can monetize your passion, you can monetize your code, you can monetize your SAS. And it is the best business model to start today, because next year is going to be the great bloom of SAS. And I'm making this prediction, right now itself, because theres a sudden trend in AI tools. And you guys know about this, right? Ever since what, 2023, right, 2022 we had this sudden spike for assassin AI tools, and the champions.

10:33:05
That means the, you know, the clever people, they jumped into it right away. And started AI, sasses and software services, and they made money, right? Theres still a chance. And thats why im doing, because I want to give you all the tools completely for free. I'm not charging a single dollar, right? All this code is done for you. You have the code, you have the knowledge, we did the research, we built the UI.

10:33:31
We got, you know, people to build the best designs for you. And we did everything. All you have to do is the other tiny portion. Thats left market, start Today, we have done every single thing. You have no excuse if you say, I dont know what to do. We have done everything for you. All you have to do now, is get it, get the application, go live and make money.

10:33:56
Okay, thats literally it because I really want each and every single one of you guys to experience what it feels like to not have a 9to5 job. Okay, everyone working in Prodigies University and in web Prodigies, none of us have 9 to five jobs. We build what we love. We work on things that we love. We wake up every single day, and we love the things that we do.

10:34:21
And I want you to experience that as well. I dont want a single prodigy around the world to ever Wake up on a Monday And wish it was a Friday. Never, never, again. Thats my goal. Okay, so, IVE done everything completely for free. All im asking is to give a subscribe. Okay, if you believe this is enough value, so that you can get even more free resources, just like this.

10:34:41
And you want to give me the motivation, especially after this torturous one day, 24 hours, where I had to find the stupid error. And it turns out to be in my environment file, if you want to just support me and support the channel, and also get high quality products like this on your feed, then all you have to do is just hit that subscribe button. Okay. Okay, awesome.

10:35:03
So, now that we have done this, if we try to click on this, it should 100 take us to the stripe. Checkout page lets go. Okay, awesome. All right, im excited. All right, lets proceed. Now, now that we have the checkout page set up, we want to also make sure that when the user comes back to this page, right through the success URL, we want to first make sure that they are getting.

10:35:32
We are listening to this endpoint, right Because we dont have this endpoint set up. So, go ahead, open up your terminal. I'm, sorry, open up your folder structure, and you want to create another folder inside the root folder. So, I'm just going to shrink everything. So, its easier Inside app, you're going to want to create another folder right here, and you're, going to call it payment. And inside that, you're going to create a page.

10:35:56
TSX, and a loading TSX. Okay, it doesnt really matter, but I'm going to also have a loading page in here. And this is basically a spinner component. Okay, so I'm just going to import spinner from our, from our components. And I'm just going to render out a div just render, you know, height screen with full flex, justify, center, item, center. And this, the spinner is going to be right in the, the center of the page.

10:36:18
Okay. And inside this page, TSX, im going to return a component in here. And the first thing is, were going to get access to a bunch of search prams. Okay. And these search prams, sorry, these search prams come from, from stripe. And if you dont know where that is, let me show you. Right here. You see we have the payment session ID and the other Cancel ID and all that kind of stuff.

10:36:42
So, essentially, we want to destructure them from the search PAMs. And we want to capture those values in here. Okay, so, lets go ahead and get search params, and lets also destructure the other two variables. And the first thing we want to do is, we want to check to make sure that we have this session ID. So, im going to say, if session ID exists, like this, right, then what, what are we going to do here?

10:37:07
So, first, were going to complete the user subscription. And once we get a 200 response, were going to redirect the user to the off call back page. So that way, we can send the user into their workspace. Okay, so, what do we do first Like I said, lets go ahead and complete the subscription. So, I'm going to say con customer equal to.

10:37:28
Let me also zoom in, guys, so you guys can see, clearly, okay, customer equal to await complete. I'm going to call this subscription. And I'm going to pass in the session ID inside this. Now, first thing is change this to an ASing component, and then lets go ahead and create the server action. So, I'm, just going to go into the user page, like this. And at the bottom, I'm going to say export const complete subscription.

10:37:57
And this is going to be an Eror function. And this is going to need the session ID. So, session ID, ID is going to be a string. Okay. And inside this first, I'm going to have a triat block, and I need to first get the current user that is signed in. So, I'm going to say const user equal await current user.

10:38:18
And if there is, if there is no user, im going to return status of 400. Okay, or 404, sorry. And then after that, change this to an async component now, and then im going to say const session equal to await. And now I need to create that stripe client. So a good thing to do guys would be to actually create the stripe clients in a different file. Okay. And then you can import it right here.

10:38:48
So, thats another way to do it. But, for now, I'm just going to make this simple. I'm going to scroll up top to this file, and I'm just going to put the stripe client up here. Okay, and lets also import stripe from stripe, like this. And now we can instantiate that stripe client. All right.

10:39:05
So, down here, I'm going to say, if, I'm, sorry, const await stripe checkout sessions, retrieve this specific session, which is this session ID. And if it is a valid session, right, if it, if everything is good, then were going to upgrade the user plans.

10:39:24
I'm going to say const customer equal to await client, user update, and I'm going to invoke it and say where the clerk ID, where your clerk ID is like, user ID, and the data that I want to update is your subscription status. And in there, I want to update specifically the F, following data.

10:39:48
So, I'm going to change, I'm going to change the customer, sorry, I'm going to set the customer ID in here, and I'm going to pass in the session, customer. Okay, customer like this session, customer. Okay. And, this one has to be as string. Okay. And next, I have to also pass in the plan. So, im going to set plan to pro plan Pro. Hello, give me pro. All right, thank you. All right.

10:40:19
Now, at the bottom here, if everything is successful, we, we will just return 200. So, im going to say if or inside this, actually, let me see where I can put this. Okay, this is fine. So, if customer exist will return 200 response, that means everything is successful. And if not, then, well, return 404. And down here, just return a400 error. Okay, awesome.

10:40:43
Now, lets go back and quickly import this, the action that we just created. And now, we have to ensure that we have a 200 status. So, I'm going to say customer dot this customer status. What seems to be the issue here? Its, possibly undefined. Okay. So, we want to make sure this is returning the status number. And undefined. So, let me go in here and make some changes. Guys, just give me a second.

10:41:16
Okay, so all I did was move this from up top here, down here. Okay, now, in here, once we get customer status and its 200, then im going to redirect the user using next navigation to a callback. Okay, done.

10:41:32
Now, I have to make sure that if the user was trying to cancel, right, if something happened, not the user trying to cancel, but if the subscription session was actually cancelled in some way, then I have to search in here and check for that param. So, if cancel is true, then I want to do the following. I want to return a div with a message that says something went wrong.

10:41:56
So, im going to say return a div flex column. Justify center item, center height, screen, and width full, an H4 tag, and a paragraph tag that says something went wrong. Okay, done. So now were pretty much set with the ed subscription hook. And let me go ahead and try to test this out. Just give me a second. So, I'm going to click on subscribe and it might take me to a different page.

10:42:21
And I might not be authenticated. Lets just see as long as it. Okay. So, it redirected us to this page. Oops, I missed it. Okay, never mind. Okay, but yeah, thats it. So, now, this user is no longer a free tier member, right? As you can see, we lost access to that banner down here. And we can also do other AI related features and whatnot. Great, job, guys. All right, guys.

10:42:46
Now, we, we come to the fun stuff, we will be building an Electron application, which is a desktop version of Opal. Now, its, not entirely the browser version in Electron, but its a plugin thats going to help the user to record their screen and upload that into. Opal. Users can then go into their browser version, access, opal, they can copy links, and send them over. Okay, so this is essential to do right now.

10:43:17
Do not skip this part. Because, if we dont have the video were not going to be able to get transcripts And as a result, were not going to be able to use AI features. And as a result, were not going to be able to finish the entire application in the right order. We also have to set up AWS S3 buckets to store these videos. So, please watch this entire course in the right order.

10:43:40
Okay, so, first thing is, go ahead and create a folder. I'm going to call this Opal web prodigies. Das desktop app. Okay, just like this. And now, you want to go into your cursor and make sure your opal web prodigies, the main application, your browser version is still running, okay, you're going to go and click on new window, thats going to open up a brand new cursor window.

10:44:09
And im going to move it all the way right here. And now, im going to move my opal application, the electron application that I just created inside this folder. Okay, now open up your folder structure. And I will be using npm for this, because BUN is not truly optimized, so, I dont think its a good idea to use it inside an electron application.

10:44:36
Okay, so go ahead and please type this command with me, its npm create electron, das vite, because we will be using ViTE for, for this application. And then you want to say at latest, then you want to put a space and click on the dot, okay, and then hit enter. Its going to give you the first command, is what project template do you want? We are going to be using react.

10:45:04
Okay, please do not do vanilla. Then you're, not going to be able to follow with the course. So, click on React. And its going to give you a full native React application. And this electron version is just used using React, and its combining it with standard electron stuff, and its connecting all of the files and building us an electron version of a desktop app that can work on any device. Okay.

10:45:31
Now, of course, theres a, you know, a disclaimer. I want to point out, you will have to also make some changes per for every device, right? Right Now, we, we have only set this up for Windows. We have optimized it for window, windows and Mac. Okay, even with Mac, I might have issues because, you know, mac has now changed a lot of stuff. They are prioritizing security.

10:45:55
So, theres a lot of things that, that we might, you know, come across. And if we do, we will figure out a solution, okay, because there is always a solution. So, now go ahead and say, npMI, which is going to install all of our dependencies. And as you can see, we have React and React on, also included in this package. So, its going to go, go ahead and install everything.

10:46:18
And then you should see all the errors pretty much disappear. Okay, so let me go ahead and refresh stuff, and make sure everything is good to go. Now, the first thing im going to do is inside my main Typescript file, let me also zoom in a little bit more, which is inside the electron folder. You want to click on this and remove this line. And then you also want to remove Create. Require.

10:46:44
We dont need it for now. Okay, next. Just to make sure that everything is good to go, I'm going to type npm RuneV and hit enter. Awesome. And if everything looks great, you should see a native application that looks like this. Its essentially just a counter application that uses React, of course. But if you dont, see this, for some reason, just make sure you follow the right steps.

10:47:07
You can go back and do it one more time. Okay, now, electronJS does not come out of the box with tailwind stuff installed, so, we have to go ahead and install Tailwind, along with any other components like SHATY and UI or any other libraries that we need, right? So, I'm going to go ahead and open up the browser. And I'm going to search for shats. AndI, now click on installation, click on VJS.

10:47:32
And you're going to find this command right here. You can copy this one. We already did this, so, we dont need this. We only need this part, and I'm going to open up the terminal. I'm going to quit my terminal, right here. I'm going to paste this command and hit enter. Next, we have to create or in it tailwind, so it creates our files.

10:47:51
So, in here, im going to type the same command and hit enter. And you should see a post CSS file and a tailwind config file. Okay, and this is going to use JS. You can change it to Typescript. And you can change this one as well to Typescript. Okay, this entire project is configured using Typescript, but I dont know why this gave me Javascript here, but that should solve that problem.

10:48:16
Now, if you look into the installation, youll, see the current version of VITE. Splits typ, typescript configuration into three files, two of which need to be edited the base URL, the paths and properties to the compiler options, and also the Typescript configuration, and this TS appconfig file as well. Okay, so go into your tsconfig. Json file, which should be right in here, and we have to essentially make these changes.

10:48:45
So, im going to copy, copy this, and im going to go into my tailwind, sorry, typescript configuration file. And in here, I'm going to add my new compiler options. Okay, so I dont really have to do this Instead, I can go up here, because I already have the compiler option, right? I just have to provide the base URL and the paths like this. Okay, nice. And thats pretty much it.

10:49:10
Okay, now lets go back here And see, it also says we have to update the Typescript config appJS. So, let me search for that real quick. Okay, so im not able to find this file. I think they probably removed it, right? Im, not sure if we even need it. So, if its supposed to be there, then you can update it at the moment. I dont find this. So, I'm just going to skip over this.

10:49:34
And if any errors take place, then I will come back to this. Okay. So go ahead, open up the terminal. And you're going to type in the following command, which is this one right here. So, im going to type this in and hit enter. And now, we can copy this right here. And we have to add this to our file.

10:49:52
So, define config right here, at the bottom, you can hit enter right, after this, and you can put this inside, actually, not right here, guys, its after this bracket. Okay. You can put the resolve path right in here. Next, lets go ahead and initialize chat. CNII. So, im going to open up my terminal one once more. And I'm going to say npX chat. CN at latest in it.

10:50:14
And its going to ask me, I'm, just has, ask me some stuff. I'm just going to hit yes for this, and lets, just give that a second. Okay. It looks like no tailwind, CSS configuration was found. And, I think the reason is probably because it was looking for HM tailwind. Let me just take a quick look at this. All right.

10:50:34
So, there was some error, which was essentially telling me that it could not validate the tailwind CSS, which is really weird. CUz. It already generated the tailwind config file. So, first thing did was, I just changed this toJS. I dont think it actually matters. You can still keep these two at, as Typescript. And the next thing I did was inside my TSC confiGJS, I added the PATs.

10:51:02
And this is something that Shaden is giving me inside the documentation. So, make sure you add this in here. Next, inside the TS node. JSON, you want to add the base URL, like this. And you want to also add the paths, like this same thing. Okay, next thing is inside the VITE config. I added the resolve alias, and I passed in the, AT right here, and I set the source as the path to resolve to.

10:51:29
Okay, so make sure you type this out as well. And once this is done, I took a look into my indexCSS. And for some reason, it did not install any of the CSS related stuff in here. So, what I did was, when I ran the command, it said, click on this tailwind configuration, to learn about how to wire up tailwind. And I noticed the first thing is, it said, well, do all of this.

10:51:54
And we already did this clearly, its telling me to, to configure the templat. I'm going to copy this right here, and I'm going to go into my tailwind config file. I'm going to remove content, and I'm going to replace it with exactly what I found. Okay, then im going to add one more in here. And its, its, its called. What is it called? I think its called dark mode. Or, okay.

10:52:21
I dont think its giving me that. So, it should be fine for now. But, let me take a look. All right. Its working. So, weird. All right. Dark mode. Okay. So, go ahead and say dark mode. And you want to pass it an array and pass in class inside it. Now, if you click on this, its showing nothing is in here, right? So, if you scroll down, it says you have to copy these three utilities.

10:52:45
And you want to go into to the CSs, you want to remove everything. And you want to paste this in here, then it tells you to run dev. But before that, I want to also do npX shaten latest at latest. And in it, and if you hit enter, its going to give you this part, saying it validated the tailwind CSS file. So, now, go ahead and click on Neutral and New York.

10:53:09
And for yes, for CSS variables, and its going to go ahead and do all the CSS stuff. Tailwind. CSS stuff. Okay, nice. Now, the next thing is, I also want to install components in here. So, what I'm going to do is, well, you could either just install all the components, or you could just do only the components you need. And for this project, its a very small, I mean, very small project.

10:53:33
The only thing is we just need three windows, a recording screen, access to, you know, stuff on the computer. And thats, pretty much it. And we only need three components, like the popover button and sonar. So, we should be good to go, but I want to just get everything, just for the sake of it. So, lets go ahead and do that first. So, I went into shat ceni.

10:53:56
And the same exact thing, you want to copy this command, and im going to open up my terminal. Im going to paste this, but instead of button, I'm going to remove this and just say, add, okay, then you're going to ask me, which component do you want? Im going to hit a. And I'm going to pretty much install everything. But before that guys, I also want to make sure.

10:54:17
HM, okay, lets just do this and see if it installs it under the correct directory. And hopefully it works. And, well, get back once this is done. Okay, awesome. It went ahead and built a components folder. And it also built a hooks folder with the hook that we need, which is used toast. So that looks great. Now lets go ahead and say bun, run, dev and hit enter. Okay. Something looks wrong here. Sorry, guys.

10:54:42
Its npm Runev, because were not using HM. H. So, something is wrong. Okay, let me go ahead and fix this. Okay, so nothing was wrong, really Its just that we had the JS files for these. And if you want to do that, you also have to go ahead and configure your con, your TS config file, to essentially use the Typescript configuration types. Okay, so TS node. So, I dont have time for that.

10:55:09
So, what I did is I just changed this to JS. And now, if I do npm run dev, that should spin up an application for us. Okay, there we go, guys. Great job. The next thing you want to do is we are going to install clerk. Inside our application. Okay, so, for that were going to need two environment variables.

10:55:29
So, inside your Env example, I mean, inside the Github repository, you can find this, you can copy it and paste it. If not, no problem, all you have to do is you have to create your env file. So, im going to say, env, like this in the root. And then also, in get ignore, we want to go in here. And at the bottom, we want to say, env. Okay, nice.

10:55:52
And the next thing is, I went into Github, and I created a new repository. And I just copied this line by line right here, because this by default, does not come with the Github repository. Okay, so, I just copy this, the get in it, one line by line, and just hit enter. And that essentially install my Github repository into this. And you will notice your env file will be pretty much grayed out, like this.

10:56:20
Okay, this is exactly what you want. I just did that right now. So, that way, I know my get ignore is actually working. Okay, so now, im going to close this. I dont really need this terminal. So, kill this terminal here. Okay. And the next thing is, im going to go into my example, and im going to copy the URls right in here. And im going to paste it.

10:56:43
Now, im going to go into my other application, which is our web application. And im going to copy the clerk, publishable key Next, lets go back into this, and im going to paste that publishable key in here. Okay, and this one when we need it. Well, get to this right now. We dont really need it. So, next, we also need to install clerk. So, lets go ahead and do that.

10:57:05
Now, the next thing is because were using VJS, we have to install stuff with respect to the ViTE version, right. So, we have to go ahead and open up clerk documentation. And I see a React, quick starter guide in here. And I see the command that I need. So, I'm, just going to copy this command. And in the terminal, im going to open another one. Actually, not sure if I have to quit this terminal.

10:57:27
Its very different from the traditional React application, right? So, im going to go ahead and paste this in here. And if I look at my, okay, in my package, JSON, I see the clerk react. Okay. And lets go ahead and run bun, run, dev, or npm, run, dev. And now I can restart. And I should see a window popup. Okay, nice. So, let me also make this a fulls screen window.

10:57:53
Now, first thing is, I'm going to go into my indexCSS. If you have the CSS file from Github, you're good to go, all you have to do is copy it from there. And you can paste, each and every class were going to need these classes to essentially make each of our windows draggable. Okay, because theyre all individual plugins, right?

10:58:11
So, you can create these classes by copying it from Github, or you can pause and type the screen type from whatevers on the screen. So, first one is draggable and nond, draggable. Then, for scroll bar, im going to turn that off as well. Sorry, I'm going to change the width to five pixels. And for border radius on the scroll bar tracker, I'm going to change it to 10 pixels.

10:58:32
And for the handle on the scroll bar, its called scroll bar, thumb. I'm going to set it to gray and set the border radius to 10 pixels. Okay, nice. Now, im going to go ahead and close this and lets, lets go back into our app. TSX. And, sorry, our main TSX. And lets continue from here.

10:58:51
So, the first thing we want to do in our main file is we want to say const publishable key is equal to import met. Env. Vite clerk, publishable key. Next, I'm going to say if theres nothing inside the publishable key, then im going to throw an error and just say missing publishable key. Okay, so far, so good, because we have it so good to go next.

10:59:14
Inside here, this application is supposed to be wrapped inside our clerk provider. So, im going to grab our clerk provider, and this clerk provider can be imported from clerk at clerk reacts. And now the clerk provider is going to need the publishable key and the after signup URL. So, I'm going to say clerk provider like this. Okay. And inside that, im going to pass in my app.

10:59:37
And im going to pass the publishable key, as well as the after signout URL. Okay. And down here, let me just make sure. This looks good. Yep. This one looks good, too. And this is some stuff that we dont have to really care about its. Just the IPC renderer, essentially listening to events and stuff like that. Okay, so, you dont really have to bother about this.

10:59:57
Now, if you click into this app, TSX, you're going to see this file right here, right, lets go ahead and remove everything from here. And you can return a div. And you can just say something in here, like this. And it should render inside your application. Okay, nice. Now, the next thing is, we are going to need our react query, react query. And our client inside here as well. So, lets go ahead and grab that.

11:00:21
Okay, so im going to copy this command right here. And inside my terminal, I'm, just going to paste this. And that should installed, install React query for me. And now that I have that installed, I can import it from here, say import query, client, and the query client provider. And now I can do whatever I want in here. Okay, so, first thing, go ahead and remove the state.

11:00:42
And since we dont need the state, im also going to remove this import. And now I need to first create a client, right? So, im going to say const client equal to query client. And then I also need to wrap our application inside this query provider. So, im going to say query client provider. And inside this, I'm going to pass in our new client. So, im going to say client equal to client, just like this.

11:01:07
Okay. Now, in here, we need to have essentially our off button, the widget and the layout for this app application. But, if were using toasters, we also need to import the toaster component. So, I'm going to grab that as well. And the toaster component comes from Soner. So, let me go ahead and install that. So, toaster just like this. And im also going to render out toaster in here. Nice. Now, I dont need these.

11:01:33
So, im also going to remove this. So, it doesnt throw any errors. And you shouldnt have any problems with your application as well. So, inside your folder structure, right here, you're going to create something called layouts. Okay. And inside that, you're going to create a control layout, TSX. Now, usually in a React application, I like to name everything with capital letters. Now, this is totally up to you.

11:01:56
You dont have to do it, but I just like to do it because it makes more sense. Okay, because these are components and theyre not similar to routes. So, you can call this control layer. TSX like this. And this is probably what you would see in a, you know, in a production environment as well. Now, im going to going to go ahead and return a component right here.

11:02:18
And this is going to be called control layer, because of the component name right here. Okay, nice. Now, this is going to need first the children and the class name prop. So, lets go ahead and grab that, and lets destructure this from the props. And now, the first thing is, were going to create a state.

11:02:35
And this state is essentially going to check to see whether the IPC renderer wants to hide the plugin, or show the plugin, and based on that, were going to set the is visible state to true. Okay, so lets go ahead and create that state right here. So is visible and is set visible, and were going to import UST state. And this is going to be set to fault by default.

11:03:01
Now, remember, we had something called the IPC renderer, right, were going to go ahead and call this method here, call on hide plugin and were going to pass in a callback function. So, its kind of, like, I mean, its basically, event emitor, right? Think about it that way. And I al, im also printing the event here. So I can see whats going on.

11:03:22
And I have set is visible, and im going to pass in the payload and the state, okay, nice. So, now, once this is true down in here, im going to render out a class name. So, im going to say class name, and I also need the CN function. So, im going to say CN, im going to import, im going to invoke it and pass in anything that was passed as a prop for the class name.

11:03:46
And now, if it is, is visible, then im going to set invisible to true. Okay. So if is visible is true, well, render this, if not, well, render in invisible right here. Okay, nice. And then after this, we want to also pass in the default class names. So, im going to put a comma and im going to say the following class, which is Bg of this color. Flex. Px of one flex column rounded 3xl.

11:04:16
Overflow, hidden, and height screen. And inside this, let me see if I just return something. Okay, its not going to return. And the reason is because I have to render out this component. So, lets go back one step. And inside our app. TSX, before the toaster were going to render out our controlled layout. Okay, so, our controller, our control layout is going to come from this folder. So, lets go ahead and install that.

11:04:41
And down here, I'm going to go ahead and render out this component. And the toaster can be outside. Thats totally fine. Okay. And now, inside this component, we can render out the anything else that we want. So, now lets go back into our control layout. Okay, so, it looks like theres a problem with the imports, right? Because I'm getting this from a different file. So, I'm going to change this to controller layer, or controller layout.

11:05:10
Okay. So, there seems to be a problem with the spelling errors. So, layout like this, and lets go back. And I probably also want to change it right here. This is why I hate typing, guys. I make so many spelling errors. Its crazy. But its, okay, everybody makes problems. Everyone makes errors, right? So whats the issue Lets see. So this is a default export. So we dont really need this. Okay, nice.

11:05:39
And now this needs children. And the props. And well, go ahead and pass that in. So, in here, right now, now we need to first create some components, but let me make sure. Okay, we still havent completed our layout. So, lets go ahead and complete that first. So inside this were going to create another div. Okay, and this is going to have the following class name. Flex. Justify. Justify between items, center and padding of five.

11:06:08
And then also were going to make this element draggable. Okay, so let me change this padding of five. And im going to change this to dragable, just like this. And then im going to have our user button. So, im going to say, span. And inside that, im going to change this to non draggable. And im going to import our user button component, which comes from clerk. Okay, nice.

11:06:29
Now, the next thing is, im also going to have an X button right here. So, after this span, were going to show an X button like this. And thats going to have a call back called Onclose. App. And lets go ahead and create that one as well. So, inside your list, li folder, you're going to find something called Uols. And inside the UOLS, I'm just going to create this one in here.

11:06:51
Okay, so, essentially anything that we need for our app, we can put in here. Now, just keep in mind, guys, this in no way, is a production ready, you know, like structure or anything for our electron application. I'm, just getting it to work as fast as possible. All right, so you can go ahead and create all the folders, whatever you want, cuz, I just showed you probably a 10hour course on how to do this.

11:07:14
And IVE also created more than 100 plus hours of free courses that teach you how to create a good folder structure. And, you know, maintain a production ready approach to your application. Use the same principles in here as well. Okay. But for now, im just going to go ahead and set it up this way, because I want to do it as fast as possible.

11:07:33
So, basically, when the user clicks on the close app were firing an IPC renderer called close app. Okay. And then inside our main file, when we start up, our entire application were going to set up the listener for this event. And when this event is fired, then were going to essentially crash the window, whatever we need to do, okay, quit the window. Sorry, not crash. Okay, thats probably what we need to do in there.

11:07:58
So, just wanted to give you a heads up, that events are going to be across different pages. And if you dont understand, well, its very simple, if were sending something from here, were probably receiving it from somewhere else, and if you're receiving from somewhere else, were probably sending it from a different file. So just keep that in mind, as we develop. Okay, that way, you're not confused, and you're not lost as to whats going on.

11:08:19
So now im going to import the on close click handler. And now this x button can act as a close, a closing option for our application. Okay, so im going to also import X from lucid react. And now I have that component. All right. Awesome. And after this div guys right here, go ahead, create another div. And inside this were going to say Flex 1, height of zero, overflow of auto. And inside this, another div.

11:08:49
Okay, and this one is going to have padding of five, flex with a full. And now one more div inside this. And this is going to have image. So, image tag, and the source is going to be the opal logo. And right now, of course, I dont have this. So, im going to go ahead and grab that. So open up the old code base. And search for the public folder. And click on opal logo.

11:09:15
And just copy this file. And you can paste it inside your public folder. Okay, so, yeah, so now I can copy this directory. And in here, the path, sorry, I can just paste this in here. I'm going to say slash. Logosvg. And thats pretty much it. Okay, for all tag, I dont really know if it matters, but I mean, sure. So I'm just going to say app logo. Okay. All right.

11:09:44
Now, after this, im going to create a paragraph, and im going to say opal. And this is going to have a class name of text, white text, 2xl. Okay. And thats it. Thats for the starting part of our application. Now, as you can see, we have this window like this with opal right here, right? Also made a spelling error somewhere. So, flex, where did I make that spelling error? Let me search.

11:10:05
Okay, let me just change this to flex items, center and gap x of two. Okay. All right, nicer. So, this is essentially going to be one part, right? So, its kind of like the login screen. And if you close this, its going to fire that event. And not sure if we can see this here, probably cant, right? But essentially, youll be able to close the application.

11:10:33
So one more thing I want you to keep in mind is in, our application were going to have three different entry points. Okay, because all of our apps are handled as separate React applications. And this, this is some custom configuration that we need to do, because technically, whenever you show an individual window, it has to be an individual React application in itself.

11:10:55
Okay, so its going to have its own index file, its own app file, all that kind of stuff. So this window, this window right here, its a, its essentially a layout for our controller, right? So were going to have the type of, you know, the audio files or the, the audio, you know, devices, the screens and all that kind of stuff inside this one. Okay, and also the login screen.

11:11:19
So thats why we have this X button, because this is the only component that you can close the entire application with. Okay. So lets go back in here. Now that we have this, let me see what other errors we have. Okay, we also have to render out the children elements. So inside this, you see this height of zero, right? Let me do one thing. Let me remove this. And im going to paste this after this.

11:11:43
Okay. And in here were going to render out all the children elements. So im going to say children, like this. Nice. Now lets go back. And inside this, we now have to pass in our children. Elements. And the first thing were going to build is our O button. Sorry, I kind of choked there. Its our O button. Okay, so, go ahead and you're going to say off button like this.

11:12:05
And you want to open up your folder structure. You want to go into your components, you're going to create a folder in here. Let me close this. Where is that? Okay, components were going to create a folder called O or sorry, global. Okay. And inside this, I'm going to create another folder called O button. Okay. And inside this, an index. TSX.

11:12:30
And now in here, I'm just going to return a component and change this to whatever I want. Now, this does not have any props, so you can pretty much remove this. Okay, we dont need this. Theres a lot of squiggly lines. So, you could go into your Typescript and change that if youd like. But all we need right in here is the sign out and the signin button. So, lets go ahead and grab those.

11:12:51
It comes from clerk. And first thing, I'm going to say in here is signed out. Okay. And im going to wrap this component, all the components inside this. So first, were going to create a div with flex gap, x3 height screen. And we also to have justify, center, item, center and inside this, were going to have the signin button, and then the sign up button. So, sign in right here.

11:13:14
And this is going to need a button right here, and its called sign in. And I'm just going to provide the following styles. Please pause and type, okay, and then the and the but button, right after this is the sign up button. So, I'm going to say sign up, button, passing a button again, and say sign up in here. Okay, cool. So, now lets go back and lets quickly import our off button.

11:13:36
And that should not have any errors. Okay, nice. And next thing is, were going to need to set up the widget. Okay, okay. And our widget is, is essentially our media sources and everything that we need in terms of this specific application, right? So, as you can see, sign in, and the signup and opal got pushed to the bottom. Okay, I just had to scroll down. So, opal is right here.

11:14:02
So, go ahead and sign in. Okay. Its taking us to clerk and just give me a second. Okay, so I try to access my account. And its just giving me some prompts. So, let me go ahead and try to, to allow. All right, awesome. And now I can see the clerk icon. Great, job, guys.

11:14:20
Okay, another quick fix I made in here is I went into the controller layout, and I removed the height screen from here. Okay. That way, it doesnt always take the full height of the screen, and its just kind of in one single location. Okay, feels easier. Okay. Next thing were going to do is, were going to go into our app. TSX. And in here were going to need to create our widget components. Okay.

11:14:46
So, go ahead and after this, you're going to say widget like this, and open up your folder structure. You're going to go into global components, and I'm going to create a folder called widget. And inside this, an index. Tsx file now lets go ahead and return the widget component itself. This component does not need any props. I'm going to remove all the props for this component.

11:15:09
And in here, first thing is, were going to need to get the user state, right? We need all the user information. So, for this, im going to create something, sorry, I'm going to invoke, not create, guys, we already have a hook, actually, I thought I could create a hook, but I dont think I need it. So, let me go ahead and say const user equal to use user. Okay. And you can invoke that.

11:15:33
And now, you're going to get access to the user. And once you get access to the user itself, you can scroll all the way down here, and lets go ahead and return a div like this with the class name, padding of five. And after this down here, im going to show a clerk loading component. And this is going to have a div with the class name, height of full.

11:15:56
And then im going to put flex, justify, center items, center. Okay, nice. And then inside this element, im going to render a spinner component, which I dont have right now. So, im going to go ahead and grab that component. And you can pretty much grab it from the Github, or you can go in here. And you can just pause the screen and type.

11:16:22
Okay, but I just suggest you just get the repository once you're going to be typing forever. So, im going to say loader like this. And inside that, I'm going to say spinner or index. TSX. And maybe it makes sense to call that component loader, right? Not spinner. So, loader like this. And I'm going to quit this. Rename this to loader. And im going to import it from our loader file. Nice.

11:16:50
So now that we have our spinner components, after the loading, I'm going to show the signed in, signed in component. And the signed in component comes from clerk as well. So, let me go ahead and grab that stuff. So, in here, im going to say, signed in, okay, or not sign in guys, sorry, signed in like this. And we also need, I think this is enough, okay, just signed in for an now.

11:17:15
And here, I'm going to render out the signed in component, but the signed in component actually needs the profile info. So, what im going to do is im going to grab some of the information for the user profile. And im going to need to create a state to actually hold that user, right. So, let me go ahead and do that.

11:17:36
So up here, im going to say const, and im going to call this profile, and set profile. And this is going to be equal to use state, and lets invoke that. And this is going to have a default type. Okay. So this type is going to be as follows. So let me go ahead and copy this and save you some time. So, its going to look like this, right?

11:18:00
We have status, the user, and this is going to have the subscription plan, pro or free. And the studio information, which is all the settings, right? So the ID, the screen, the mic, the preset, everything that they need, including the camera and the user ID.

11:18:15
And then we also have the user information in here, which is the string email, first name, last name, created at en clerk, ID, or this, this one will be null, or this entire data will also be null, okay. And by default, I'm just going to set this to null right now. Okay. Now, you can take this and put it into a different file. But I'm just going to keep it in here.

11:18:36
And the next thing we want to do is we need to have a use effect that can fetch this information, right? So, I'm going to say, use effect like this. And in here, I'm going to return an empty dependency, or actually, im going to pass in the user information from here, right? This is right here. And im going to pass that in here.

11:18:57
And first thing im going to do is I'm going to say, if the user exist, and user ID exist, then I'm going to do the following. So, I'm going to say, fetch, user profile, info, like this, and its another, basically, a request, an API request that we need to make. So, well, do this inside the U tools file. But first thing is, this is going to need the user ID.

11:19:23
And then I'm going to say, do then. So once this is completed, this is going to take a callback function. And all I'm going to do is set the profile to the profile, we get, okay, and all right. So for now, this should be good. So, lets go ahead and create this. So go into your libs folder, and click on new tools.

11:19:42
And in here, you're going to go ahead and say export const fetched user profile equal to an arrow function. And this is going to be an async function that takes in the clerk ID, which is going to be a string. And in here, I'm going to say const response equal await HTTP client. Okay. And the HTDP client is not showing up. Okay, so, weird. So, im going to say HTDP client get. All right.

11:20:08
So, lets do this instead, guys. So open up your terminal and were going to say NPMI, axios. Okay. And go ahead and hit enter. And right here, first thing is, I'm going to say, const http client equal to Axios. And Axios is going to get imported from Axio. So, im going to import that right here. And im going to say, do create. And im going to pass in some options.

11:20:33
So, im going to set the base URL equal to import meta environment. VIT host URL. Of course, we dont have this, right? So, well, create that in just a second. But for now, I think we could just. Pass in the HM. I think we could just pass in local host URL, right, so let me go ahead and do that. Okay, so I said, http local host, 3000, and lets go back now.

11:21:03
And where do we have that call? Okay, we have the call done right here. So, in here, im going to say the following. So, im going to say, await ACDP, client, doget, were going to invoke this and were going to pass in the AU route. So, we can to say, AU slash, and this is going to be the back tick. Sorry. And I'm going to say dollar sign clerk ID, this one right here. Okay.

11:21:27
Now, if this is good, also, we have to pass in some headers. Sorry about that. So, after this, go ahead, pass in an object. And I'm going to pass in the headers. And im going to say contenttype application. JSON. And after this here, im going to return this responsedata, just like this. Okay.

11:21:47
Now, the first thing to keep in mind is, if we need to make requests between this application and the other one, we have to create something called as a proxy. Okay, so, lets, go ahead and set up that configuration. So, right, right below this right here, im going to say the following. And im also going to quit my terminal, so I dont get any errors.

11:22:08
And guys, this is something that you cant see in real time, right? We cant, because its going to keep constant, refreshing the entire application. And its going to keep navigating me to the app. Okay, but this is just configuration stuff. So, for now, were good to go. So, the first thing were going to do is, were going to set up our proxy. So were going to say server, and this is going to be an object.

11:22:29
And I'm going to put a comma after this. And in here, we need our proxy itself and were going to set the proxy settings, like, like the following. So, I'm going to say, slash, in a string slash API, what just happened? So, okay, SL API. And this is going to be an object. And this object is going to have, first the target URL, and the target URL is going to be local, host 3000 SL API.

11:22:55
Okay. And then after that, we have to have the change origin. So, I'm going to pass the change, origin, origin in here as well. And I'm going to set this to true. And after that, we need to have, okay, looks like this is in the wrong place. This has to be along with the target. Okay, so, were going to say change origin in here.

11:23:15
And the next thing is, we need to pass in a rewrite path. So, the rewrite path in here is going to be the following. So, im going to say, rewrite path, replace this API with nothing. Okay, so now were going to be able to make requests. Now, go ahead, open up your terminal and you're going to install the following. So, I think we actually dont have this.

11:23:39
Let me just take a quick look, guys, okay, so, I'm going to say npmi. V. Ts config pats. And let me go ahead and install this package. And were going to scroll down to where you find plugins right here. And after react, you're going to pass in the plugins, the plugin that we just imported, and you're going to import it. Okay. And this can be imported from the new library that we just installed.

11:24:05
Okay, now, im going to go ahead and close my VITE configuration file. And inside my app file, I think I also have to import the widget itself. Okay, nice. And let me just take a quick look at this file. Okay, so we can now import the fetch user information. And thats it. So, now, we have the users information right here. And we also have to use this profile, right.

11:24:29
So, lets go ahead and do that right below, down here. So inside this signed in component, were going to say, if profile exists, then were going to need to render out a component called the profile ups, the media configuration. Okay, so media configuration like this. And if not, then were going to render something else. And here were just going to render a div.

11:24:56
And this div is going to have a class name of width, full height, full flex, justify center, justify, center and items. Center. Okay. And inside this div, im going to pass in a loader component, and im going to set the color to white. Okay, nice. Now, for this component, we can go ahead and create it, but were also going to need another server action, right? Sorry, not server action.

11:25:24
I'm, so used to saying server, server actions, but were going to need to create another hook. And this hook is called use media resources, because we want to essentially get all the resources that the user had, and we want to render their devices in here, right? So, im going to scroll up top right here, and im going to say the following.

11:25:43
So, im first going to say, const, we are going to get a state, or let me first put the other side of the equation, which is use media sources. Okay. And this is going to give us the state which were going to get from this hook, and were also going to get fetch media resources. Okay, so lets, go ahead and build this out. So, you want to open up your folder structure.

11:26:05
And im also going to comment this out For now, this whole section, cu, you dont really need it. Im going to scroll down. And im going to click into my hooks. And im going to create the used media resource, typescript file. Now, inside this, im going to do the following. So, first, im going to say, export const use media resource. And this is going to be an ArOR function.

11:26:29
And were going to use the use reducer right here to essentially create a getter state. And also pass in some reducers, like get devices. And, you know, anything else, if you want to expand on top of this, and we can use the reducer in here, to essentially change the state in the future. Okay, so right away, I'm, just going to say, const state and action. This is equal to use reducer were going to invoke it.

11:26:57
And this is going to take the first one. This is going to take an arrow function as the first parameter. And after that, we also need to pass in the default data, right? So, in here, first thing is, were going to get state, right? And this state is going to be of a specific type. And that type is going to look like this.

11:27:20
So, let me go ahead and create the type up here, its called source device, state. Props. Okay. Were going to have displays audio inputs, error, and is pending. And for each of this app icon, display, ID, ID, name, thumbnail. And down here, for audio, its going to be device, ID, kind, label, group ID. And thats pretty much it. So, pause and type this out. Okay.

11:27:41
So, now, here, im essentially going to call this one and say, the state is going to be of this specific type. And our other one is going to be an action. And our action is going to be, you know, a bunch of different action props. So, im going to scroll up here, and I'm going to say type, type, like this, and were going to call this display device.

11:28:04
So, display device, action, props, and were going to have the first type called get devices. And the payload for this is going to be the exact same thing. Okay, so this type right here, and right here, I'm just going to pass in that type for the action. Now, inside this, first of all, I see an error here. Let me see whats going on. Okay, lets just fill this up.

11:28:25
And then, maybe because were not returning any data, its screaming at us. So were going to need a switch statement. And the key here is going to be action type. And for the value here, im going to say, if this is equal to get devices, then I want to return the following. Okay, and down here, im going to return the, the state itself for default.

11:28:45
Now, inside this section, I want to first return a return, all of the devices that I currently have, so all of the state data, so this one, but I want to also pass in the action payload. Okay, so im going to say everything inside state, but were going to pass in action payload. Okay, what seems to be the issue here? Okay, I have to use a spread operator for this one as well.

11:29:13
All right, right, nice. And by default, well, just return the state itself. Now, after this purple one, im going to create another object. And now I have to pass in this, the default data, right So my displays, the audio inputs and is pending is going to be like this.

11:29:32
So im going to say display, like this displays are going to be an empty array, audio inputs, and empty array errors, its going to be null and is pending, its going to be false. Okay. Now, now, right here at the bottom, were going to need to create a function called fetch media resources, and we are going to essentially return the state and the fetch media resources. So, we can essentially get all that data, okay.

11:29:58
And, we can also do it inside the component. So, thats pretty much it. So, im going to say const, and this ones called Fetch media resources. Okay, this is equal to an arrow function. And this Aror function in here is going to essentially invoke this action and were going to fire, this specific type, were going to dispatch an action to this reducer. Okay.

11:30:19
And now, guys, if you want to see a much more Indepth breakdown of the entire, you know, user reducer, and how you can pretty much build your own Redux library completely from scratch, then you can watch the plural video. And, you know, pretty much any video IVE created in the past. So, IVE done this a thousand times, and IVE explained it in great depth. The plural video is going to pretty much explain everything for you.

11:30:42
Okay, so you can watch that video if you want more guidance. But right now, this is the simplest way for us to set this up. So, im going to just invoke the action. And im going to pass in the type in here, and the type is going to be get devices. And then I have to pass in the payload as well. And my payload is going to be an object with is pending set to true.

11:31:04
Okay. And then down here, im also going to return an object first, so I can get rid of these errors. And the fact, media resources, okay, much better. And now, after I invoke this action, I want to essentially call another function that were going to create from our utils folder. And that is called the get media resources. Okay, its a, its essentially an API request.

11:31:30
So, im going to say, get media resources, and let me go up top here. And first, let me just go into the UOLS file, and I can create this. So export const get media resources is going to be an async function. Okay, and inside this were going to make that request. Okay, so, first thing were going to do in here is im going to say, displays equal await window, IIPC renderer, do invoke, get resources.

11:31:59
Okay, so, lets go ahead and say this, just like this. And then after that, we have to say, const enumerated devices is equal to window, navigator, medAD devices, enumerate devices. Okay, were going to invoke this. Now, guys, this is all syntax stuff, so, dont worry about it. Just keep typing. Even I was completely clueless, because electron is very new to me. And, you know, I had to make this work. So, I found the code.

11:32:27
Just use this. And if, since you have cursor, you can highlight everything. And you can ask cursor AI what it does. Okay, but just follow through with this Were going to be here forever if I explain every single thing. So, next, we need the audio inputs, right? So, I'm going to say audio inputs equal to, in your ated devices, filter and were going to filter for this specific device. So, its a callback function, right?

11:32:52
So, this is going to give us the device itself. So, im going to say device here, but if the device doind is equal to audio input, then were going to return this. Okay. And make sure theres no spelling errors here, right? Dont take this one, its audio input, not audio output. And then you can consolelog a message here, that says getting sources. Okay. So, we know whats going on.

11:33:19
And then you want to also return some data. So, im going to return this right here, saying displays set to audio. Okay. Oh, sorry, guys. Displays like this. So, this display is right here, were going to return that. And the audio is going to be as follows. Its going to be the audio inputs. Okay. Awesome. So, now we can go back and we can import the server action. Sorry, I keep saying server action.

11:33:48
We can import this API, this API call. And then we can say then, and in here, were going to get access to a callback function. Okay, so now, first, were going to get these sources. And inside this were going to say, also, remove this, guys, its not a were not. This is not an action. In here, right? Were returning something returning data. So, let me just bring this back.

11:34:10
So, in here, I'm going to return action. I'm going to invoke it. And in here, I'm going to pass in the type, I'm going to set it to get devices. And then I want to set the payload. And the payload is going to be displays. Set to sources, which were getting from here, right? Sources, displays, and then we also need the audio inputs. So, lets go ahead and say sources. Audio.

11:34:35
And I also need is pending. And I'm just going to set it to false. Okay, nice. Now, lets go back and lets invoke this hook right here. And now, we have some data. Okay, so let me go ahead and also consolelog the state and the. Let me just console log state and see whats going on. All right, so one more fix we need to make here. And I totally forgot about this.

11:35:02
If were trying to fetch the userss information. If you see right in here, we have the fetch user profile were making, were making an API request to AU ID, right? So, now, if we dont, have this set up on our code, in our code base, right here, were not going to be able to listen to it, so, were going to, were not going to get any data back. Okay, so, we need to fix this first.

11:35:26
So, what were going to do here is go back to our codebase, which is our browser, our web application. And in here were going to create another route called A. And inside that, create a dynamic route called ID like this, and a route. Typescript. Now, inside this route, typescript were going to export a get function. Okay. And im going to call it like this.

11:35:52
And the first thing were going to get from our parameter is the request. So, im going to say, request is going to be next request from next server, and were also going to get some PAMs, right? So, im going to say PAMS and im going to destructure it right away. So, why is this not showing up? So, PAMs, like this.

11:36:14
And this is going to be an object with PAMs, and this is going to have ID set to a string. Okay. Now, inside this, im going to first go into our database. I'm going to say const user profile equal to await client, user find unique, and were going to get the user ID, right? So, were going to say where the clerk ID, clerk ID is of type ID.

11:36:42
So, the, sorry, the one we got in the param, right? So, thatll be ID. Thats correct. And then include, because were going to get some data from it, we want to get the studio information, and we want to set this to true. We also want to get their subscription plan. So were going to set this one to true as well. And now, it looks like its saying cannot find ID in here.

11:37:04
Let me see why thats going on. Okay, its, because I havent destructure it from here, right? So, I can say ID, like this. And now, I can call that down here. And once this is done, we want to make sure we have the user profile. So, down here, I'm going to say, if user profile exist, return a next response and send the JSON data to that call. So, 200 response and send the user profile.

11:37:28
Now, the next thing is down here, I'm going to say the following, which is, if the user does not exist, then we need to create the user, right? So were going to need the clerk client, which comes from next. Js from clerk, nextJS Server, and were going to need to create the user down here. So, in here, I'm going to say const clerk, user, or instance. This makes more sense.

11:37:54
So, instance equal await clerk, client, you want to make sure you import it. And then were going to say users, getet user, and then import this. And you want to pass in the ID. Okay, and now, down here were going to essentially say const create user equal, await client, user, create, and were going to invoke this one. And inside it, were going to pass in the data. So, theres a lot in here.

11:38:20
So, please just follow through with me. First one we need is the clerk ID. Then we need the email ID. Next, we need first, and last name. So, lets go ahead and pass that in as well. Then we need the studio information. So, im going to say studio, and were going to create an empty data. So, all the default data.

11:38:37
Then, for workspace, im going to create a workspace, along with their name, right, as your first personal works space. And then after this down here, im going to create a subscription and just use default data for now. And then after this down here, which is after the data. So, once we create, we also want to include the subscription and were going to select the plan. Okay.

11:38:58
And now, after this, all the way down here, if we created the user, and everything was successful, we need to return A201 response, right? So, im going to say, if user exist, if created user exist, then im going to, to pass in the return a next response with JSON of two, status of 2011. And I'm going to pass in the create user. Okay.

11:39:21
And also, I just want to make sure this clerk ID was set to PAM ID. But here, you just want to change it to ID. Okay. And for email, I'm just going to extract everything from the clerk instance. And that should be good to go. Now, if this failed, then im going to return a 400. And also maybe consolelog and say, say error. And you can also put this in a tr catch.

11:39:46
If youd like, but for now, I'm just going to say error occurred here. Or maybe lets do that guys. So, lets wrap everything. Okay, lets wrap it inside a bracket. Like this. And im going to scroll up here. And im going to say, try and at the bottom, I'm going to say, catch, like this. Okay. And inside the catch, I also need to get access to the error.

11:40:11
I'm going to say error and ILL pass the error in here. Okay. And if this endpoint is hit, I also want to know. So im going to say consolelog endpoint. Hit. And maybe we can pass in an emoji, right? Something like this. Okay, nice. Cool. All right. And it looked like I made another error inside our environment file. So, go back to our Opal, the electron version.

11:40:37
And inside V hosted URL, you want to change this to API. Okay, API. And now, now, if you go back to our endpoints right here, and if you open our application, and if you refresh this, awesome, and if you take a look right here, its saying end points hit. And we got a 200 response from this. Okay, awesome. All right, guys.

11:40:58
So, the reason why we were not getting any data back was because we were getting the cores error. Now, there is a much simpler way of approaching this and fixing the problem and resolving the COors problem. But, the good news is we are hitting the endo, even without the fix, and we were still getting a 200 response.

11:41:21
Okay, its just that it was blocking us from, you know, pretty much getting the data back, because, of course, okay. And by the way, if you dont know, you can actually open a dev tool like this in here by clicking on view and clicking toggle developer tools. Okay. Thats how you can open this inside an electron application. All right, so, yeah, guys, that was, that was a problem.

11:41:46
And the fix I got for this was, I mean, again, thanks to the cursor AI, because I can, I, all I did was I created a nextJS documentation, I think its called a composer. And you can literally call the doc itself by just passing the URL, right? And if you dont know how to do all of this, its totally fine. You dont need to, because I already have the code.

11:42:09
But I'm just telling you what I did, right. So, I basically created a composer, and I think its command K, if im not wrong, something like this, I totally forgot what I did, but I created a composer. And inside the composer view, I essentially added the nextJS documentation. And, by just providing the, the website, and it automatically got all the code for me. And it told me exactly how to fix it.

11:42:34
Now, the first method was to install Cores and do a bunch of setup. And I wasnt really interested in that stuff, because I know there, you dont really need to do that, right? I'm, just having some weird errors, and I will probably find a better solution, but, this is pretty close to a decent solution. So, the problem is our NEXTJS application does not recognize this as a, as an allowed origin, right?

11:43:00
So, we can do that inside our middleware file. So, you want to go into our web application version, and you want to scroll down into your middleware, typescript file. And, this is what it used to look like. So, you probably had something like this, right? You want to basically redo this file. Okay, you can keep this configuration stuff at the bottom, the exact same. We only need to change whats happening in here.

11:43:27
So, essentially, first, were going to create a variable called allowed origins, and then were going to pass in local host, 5173, and then 3000, of course, in here. And then inside this variable, course options were going to create access control, allow methods were going to say, get, postP, put, delete, and options, and same the control allow headers. Now, this was methods, this is headers, and were going to do content type and authorization. Okay.

11:43:59
So, once you have these cores options next down here, this is by default, its already there, I guess, right? Yeah, you see this, we already have this, its essentially just the routes. And inside the clerk, middleware were going to have this call back, right? The exact same thing as the previous one. But inside this first, were going to check the origin.

11:44:17
So were going to, were going to say, request headers, do get origin, and were going to see if it is an allowed origin. So allowed origins. This one do includes the origin that we just got, if its a part of that then were going to handle preflight requests. And how do we do this? Well, preflight requests are essentially the first request thats made, right?

11:44:40
So were going to say, if request, method equal op options, this is essentially the prelight flight request, then were going to say const preflight headers equal to an object. And in this were going to conditionally destructure, right here were going to say, is allowed origin. If this is true, then were going to conditionally render out, sorry, return this object with allow, sorry, access control, allow origin, and were going to pass in the origin. Okay.

11:45:08
And then all of our cores, options that we just created up top right, in here. Okay, cool. And then we have to return next response JSON and were just going to pass empty in here, but were going to pass in the headers. And these, this is going to be our preflight headers. Next, were going to handle any protected routes, and this is by default already done above, right?

11:45:30
So, if this is basically for clerk, so we already had this before. So, if its a protected then were going to say, AU, protect. Okay, next, for simple requests, we have, have to say, con response equal, next response next. And then, this is the allowed origin, then we want to say response headers, do set. And we want to say access control, allow origin. And we have to pass in our origin right here. Okay.

11:45:57
And then object entries is going to essentially get us all of the key and values, right? You can read this, if you dont know, this is just Javascript stuff. And were going to pass in our cores options in here. And for each of them, were essentially going to set a response header. Thats it.

11:46:14
So were going to grab all of these values, right, these key and value, each of these, and were just going to create a header for it. So, response headers, doet, the key and value. Thats it. Okay, and then return response. And this can stay as is.

11:46:29
And now, if you go into our application and you refresh, refresh the electron version, you're going to see status of 200. And you're also going to see all the information of the user. Okay, great job. So, lets go back to our app. Do, let me search. Okay, so this is the desktop app. So this is good. So, in here, you're going to find the app. TSX, im going to go into the widget.

11:46:57
And down here, essentially have this part where I was rendering something, right? So now I can remove this. And basically, by default, it used to show that loading icon. But now its no longer going to. But the problem here is, I dont have this component yet, right? Which is the media configuration component. So, now that we have all this data, we can go ahead and create this component and pass all the information.

11:47:22
Okay, so first thing you're going to do is you're going to go ahead and open up this component. So, let me go in here. And I'm going to create a page in here. First, a folder called media configuration. Okay. And inside that, an index, a page called index. Tsx. Okay. And you can put the same thing in here if you want as well. But, let me change the spelling here. Okay, nice.

11:47:46
I'm going to return a component. And im going to rename this and were going to have some props here. Now, please pause the screen and type this. I will go absolutely crazy if I sit and type everything. Okay. But basically, this is the type that were going to get just the user and the state. Thats it. Okay, pretty much the same thing as the previous one.

11:48:06
And lets go ahead and get our source device, state props as well, were going to import that. Okay, nice. And down in here, I can essentially destructure these values, which is user, and the state itself. Okay, nice. So, inside this component, all were going to, all were going to be doing is just check to see if the user has a source.

11:48:28
If not, then were going to use the first source that were going to get from their, you know, from, from all the, what do you call that the media files, sorry, the media devices, right, and were also going to render all of them out inside here. Okay, so lets go ahead and do that. So lets go back and quickly import this component right here. And inside this, we also have to pass in this prop.

11:48:53
So let me go ahead and say, user and state like this. And now, I can create a form element inside this, so I can create that, you know, pretty much the drop down items for them to select from, right. So, inside this, im going to say, is pending. So, if were still fetching for something, or actually, I dont think we need to do this yet. Let me just think, guys, give me a second.

11:49:16
Okay, so we have to do this right now. And its a hook. Thats essentially going to give us all these studio settings. Okay. So, for example, which screen the mode, such as HD or whatever mode, the user, the user needs were going to get all of that information, and were also going to get use mutation, and pretty much set up all that stuff in here.

11:49:39
So, we can basically send API request to update the studio settings as well, every time the user changes stuff. Okay, so, theres a bunch of things we need to do inside this hook. So, lets go ahead and set that up. So, first thing I'm going to say is const, im going to create this object here. And I'm going to set this equal to use studio settings.

11:49:58
And guys, theres an, a bunch of other setup that we also have to do. And such as, you know, rendering the right files and stuff, I mean, electron is just a, is crazy. Okay, its not very simple things are just all over the place. But, thats just how Electron works. I mean, its a desktop application, right?

11:50:16
So, go ahead, copy this, were going to open up this folder structure, were going to go down to hooks, were going to create another hook, were going to call it use studio settings, just like this. And first lets go ahead and export. Const u studio settings, which an arrow function and ill also zoom in. So you guys can see slightly, clearly, much more clearly. And why is this not going away? Okay, just close this nice.

11:50:41
And now in inside, this were going to get some props. So lets go ahead and grab those props. Sorry, guys, not props. It is the parameters that are being passed in, right? And next were going to need the use ZOD form. HOOK. Okay, so use ZOD form is essentially going to help us, like, you, I mean, I hope you remember, like, you remember, its essentially going to help us register the input field.

11:51:03
So, go down into hooks, were going to create use ZOD form. Okay, typescript. And in here, I'm just going to do the following. So essentially, I'm just saying, use ZOD form and were using generics here. So, you dont really have to care about this stuff. AI pretty much helped me get it, you know, perfect, perfectly typed.

11:51:23
Okay, so essentially, its a function, which gets the schema and the default values, and were using the use form, hook, right, from HOOK forms and were passing in the resolver and the default values, and were just returning the register error, handle, submit, watch, and reset. Okay, so lets go back. And now we can use this in here. So, im going to say, use ZOD, form, like this. And im going to import this form.

11:51:51
And next, I'm going to destructure and say, give me register and watch. And of course, this one is the schema, which were got, which we have to create, but were going to need to also pass in a schema in here. And for the schema file, you can just open up your folder structure. And im going to shrink everything and inside source, I'm going to create another folder called schemas. Okay.

11:52:13
And in here, the first one I need is my, my studio settings. Right? So, studio. Das, settings, typescript. And in here you can. Oh, sorry, guys, not Typescript, its do schema typescript. Okay. And in here, all im going to do is, say, ZOD, Z from ZOD, Z object, and its A screen, audio and preset. And these are all strings, okay. But the preset is an enum, which is HDNN. D. Okay, so lets go back.

11:52:43
And now I can import my schema. Okay, nice. And now I need to get these. I mean, I already have these two values, but its not being used anywhere. So, its just, you know, kind of screaming watch, has assigned a value, but its never used. Okay, thats good to go. So, next, im going to create a state here. Thats going to save the preset. Okay, so, I'm going to say use state.

11:53:05
So on, preset, set, preset equal UST state. Its going to be one of these types are undefined. And for now, we, we can just pass it nothing. Okay, next were going to need use mutation, and use mutation is going to help us update the studio information if the user changes anything. Okay, so, that mutate function that were going to get from here were going to return to the front end.

11:53:27
And every time the user changes the dropdown, right They can, we, essentially, we just fire the mutate. And let me also show you what this looks like. So, you have an idea. All right, there we go. So, hopefully now, everything makes sense. This is the Opal page. Theres going to be an exp mark here. This is just a rough mockup. And, you know, were going to have the tray right here.

11:53:46
We have this and then were going to have some more components, right? We also need the users screen sharing, right, and also the overlay. So we can show the user face if they have a camera. So, all of that stuff. So, essentially, when they change this, we need to save the information. So these are the drop down items that im speaking about. Okay, so lets go back now.

11:54:06
And in here, first thing im going to do is im going to say, const, im going to destructure some data from the use mutation hook. So, use mutation like this lets invoke it. And inside this, we need to first pass in, or I think I can also get mutate here and is pending first. Okay, nice. And in here, we need to pass in the mutation key.

11:54:29
So, im going to say mutation key is equal to update das studio. Okay. Like this, please dont make any mistakes here. Okay, take a look at the spelling and type correctly. And then the mutation function is going to be a callback function. And this callback function is going to give us data from here, but were going to destructure some values from this.

11:54:50
So, the first thing were going to need is screen ID, the preset and the audio. So, let me go ahead and say screen ID, audio and preset. Okay, and I'm also setting some types on these values. And now, inside this, im going to have the server action. So, or the API call. So, essentially, I'm going to say update studio settings, not schema, just settings. And this is the API call that I need to create.

11:55:17
So I can pass it with this mutate. Okay, so go into your libs folder and click on utils. Im going to scroll to the bottom, going to say, export const, im going to paste this, use the update, the update call, right. And inside this, this is going to be a arrow function. And now, this is going to need some props. Im going to go ahead and get those props, which is ID, screen, audio and preset.

11:55:42
And next in here, im going to make that call. Okay, so the API call essentially, so, I'm going to say const response equal await http client, if it will give it to me. Okay, and also, make sure you change this to an ASNC component. Okay, and down here, im going to say await client poost. Okay, post endpoints. And in here, I have to send this to the studio endpoint. And this needs to be the backT guys.

11:56:11
And I'm going to say dollar sign, curly, bracket, and pass in the ID. Okay, and next, the next value I need to passing is all the data. So, I'm going to say screen audio and the preset, so in case they change that stuff. And after this, im going to pass in one more, which is the headers. So, im going to say headers. And im going to pass in the content type.

11:56:36
So, content type, and im going to set this to application. JSON. So, I'm just going to copy this. So I dont make any spelling errors. Okay, nice. And if we dont, need to check, we can just return the response. So, I'm going to say return response. Okay. Or responsedata is probably better. All right, nice. Now lets go back and lets call, this lets import this function.

11:57:00
And now that we have the data, we now that we have this function here, we also have to pass in all this data. So, first thing is, I'm going to say, data, do ID. So this one, okay, so make sure you dont pass this in, right? You can just pass this data from here. So, data ID, data, success, sorry, do screen data. Audio. And then we also have to pass in the data preset. Okay, nice.

11:57:27
And now, once this is done, we also have, we also want to have an on success function. And this on success function is going to help us, essentially invoke a, send a toast message. Okay, so im going to going to say on success, and this is going to be another error function. Okay, and this is going to give us the data. And in here, im going to return a toast from sonar.

11:57:55
And im going to say data status. If its equal to 200, then im going to return success. And if not, then ILL return error. Okay, and, lets change this to success. Nice. And it looks like something is wrong in here as well. What seems to be the problem. Oh, okay. This is the error here. Okay, and next, we also have to pass in the message.

11:58:21
So description is going to be equal to data message, like this. Nice. So, cool. Now, we are done with our ED mutation. And at the bottom, I'm, just going to go ahead and say return. And for now, im going to need to, let me think about this. What if I could have a, a use effect that could essentially do this for that component. So, what I mean, guys, is inside this form.

11:58:46
We also have something called watch, right? So, we could just use the watch to listen to the element changes. And then accordingly, we can just fire the mutate function. That might be better, right? So we can do that. All right, that was just a good idea. Anyway, ILL do that later. I just wanted to remember. So, I just say it out loud. So I'm going to first create a use effect.

11:59:06
And this use effect is going to fire our IPC renderer. Okay. And the IPC render is like, I like, I said, its kind of like an event. Amiter were going to send an event and were going to listen somewhere else. Okay. And ILL, tell you where were going to listen to? This specifically were going to be listening to this inside our main file. Okay.

11:59:26
And when that happens, that means when we get that data, well, also, pretty much, you know, push the content to our, to our feed, whatever we need to do with it doesnt matter, right? We just need to know that were sending data from here. Thats pretty much it. So, lets create a use effect to do this. Okay. And were going to pass in an empty dependency array.

11:59:48
And in here were going to say, if screen exists first, and the audio file exists first, so not audio file, audio device, and then the preset exists as well. Then down here, I'm going to say, window. IPC, renderer, not window store, guys. Sorry about this. Let me go back. One step, window, ic renderer do send And were going to send media sources. Okay, dont make any spelling errors here.

12:00:19
And next were going to have an object where I can just pass in all this data. So, I'm, just going to say screen ID, a audio preset, and the plan, okay, done. Now, let me do that. Other use effect here. So, essentially all we have to do is, is, you know, mean, we have to listen to watch, right? So, im going to say, use effect, not use, reducer use effect.

12:00:40
And this is going to have a callback function, and in the array were going to need to pass in watch. Okay, so now we can listen. And based on this, this is going to invoke again. Now, we need to create, create a subscription. So im going to say const subscription. Well, technically, the watch is a subscription. So I'm just going to say, subscribe equal to watch, and im going to invoke it, invoke it.

12:01:04
And im going to pass in the callback function. Okay, so, keep in mind, this in itself is a subscription. Okay, we dont have to create another one. And in here, I'm going to need to first set the preset value. So, im going to say, set preset, and im going to invoke it and pass in the values and the value that I. Okay, I can get the value from here.

12:01:27
So, im going to say values in here. And I'm going to say values. Preset. And next, I need to fire the mutate function, right? Because, every time they change it, we want to fire this. So, im going to say screen. Okay. And this is going to be equal to values. Screen. And I'm just going to put this exclamation point right here. And then ID is going to be like this.

12:01:49
And then we need the audio, which is going to be values. Audio. And then we also need the preset, which is going to be values. Preset. Okay, awesome. Now, after this were going to essentially send the user ID to the second screen. Okay, so this media resource right here is pretty much the screen that we need to, where we need to listen to all this info, and then render the information out, right?

12:02:18
So we need to send that info to that screen again. So were going to make another call right here, sorry, another IPC render event trigger, and were just going to send the same information. Okay, so inside this use effect, I'm going to say, window, ic renderer, and im going to say, do send, and im going to pass in media, das sources, same exact thing. Okay.

12:02:42
And in here, I'm going to pass in theA, I'm just going to copy this. Where is that? So, screen, oh, okay. I might need to. Okay, this is fine. No problem. So, I'm just going to copy this. And here, I'm going to say, screen from here. Okay, so copy this entire event and move it into this. Watch. Okay, and inside here were essentially going to pass in these values.

12:03:07
So, values, screen, and this one is going to be ID. This ones fine. No problem. So, lets set this. Then audio is going to be values. AIO. Then preset is going to be values. Preset, okay. And then plan is going to be values. Plan, or actually we can just pass in the plan that we have above. Okay, cool. Next, we need our cleanup function.

12:03:31
Okay, and in here, im going to say, I'm going to return the subscription and im going to unsubscribe. Okay, awesome. Now, finally, I need to return all of this. So, because were doing the watch thing in here, we dont need to return the mutate function. If not, we would have to do this inside the component. So, it doesnt really matter, but this is probably a better approach. And in here, im going to say, is pending.

12:03:52
And then im going to pass in the return, the, on preset as well. All right, lets go back now and call this use studio settings, hook. So, I can do all of this magical stuff behind the scenes. And now, down here, first thing is im going to get access to is pending on preset and register. So, I'm going to get those.

12:04:13
And now, I need to essentially pass in all this, all the information, this, that this hook needs, right? So, lets go ahead and do that as well. So, im going to say user ID, like this. I'm going to pass in this screen. Okay, if not ill, pass in the state that were getting from here. So, state display at 0 ID.

12:04:34
So, essentially, guys, if you remember in the beginning, I explained what were doing, right, I explained, how were getting the media files. And if the user does not have anything, then were going to use what we have, what the user has on their device, right. So, we, using the first one in the array. Thats pretty much what were doing right here. So, so, I hope you remember thats why that section was so important.

12:04:57
So, go back and watch that if you havent. Okay, good. Now, now that we have done this part, we have all this data. Another thing I want to do is I want to get the active screen and the active audio. That way, I can render it out inside this place, right? So, let me go back to our code.

12:05:16
And right here, I'm going to say const active screen equal to state dot or not, stat state displays, find. And in here, im going to get a call back. And I'm going to say where the screen, this is going to give us access to a screen, right, so, im going to say where the screen do ID is equal to the users studio preferences. So, studio, do screen. Okay.

12:05:43
And then I also have to get the active audio. So, I'm going to say con active audio equal to state audios, audio inputs find, okay. And for this, its going to give us the audio or device, maybe, right? Were going to find where the device ID or device ID is equal to user studio. What is this? Okay. User studio, mic. Okay, awesome. All right. What seems to. Okay, we have to put this condition right here.

12:06:23
All right. Nice. So, now we have any active screen, we have the active screen and the active audio as well. So, lets go ahead and render out something. So, of course, you're not going to see anything right now. And the reason is because I dont, think, were passing in all this data. So, let me see right here. Okay, we have this state. And we have the profile information.

12:06:44
And what else seems to be the problem were getting undefined, cannot read properties of undefined, at 42. So right here, screen user, studio, screen ID. Okay, this part. So clearly, the user does not have this. So were going to try to get what we have in the state. And since we havent stored anything in this state, and let me show you that. So right here were getting this state here from the used media sources, right?

12:07:14
As you can see, let me see if I can show you clearly, right. Fetch media sources were going and getting this, and we dont have any data. We also have to store that somewhere. So we need to make sure to do this. Okay. So, I solved the problem by putting this, but thats not the solution, really, because we still need to get the users information, right? We still need to get the users devices.

12:07:37
Now, one thing that I notice is, im not sure if this component is actually being fired. Well, it is here. I see the state index at 48. So, I see it being printed. And it gives me the correct information, whatever I need. But what I mean by this is, if you go back to the previous components, the fetch media resources right here should, should essentially fetch some data for us. This one right here, right.

12:08:05
So, I think theres an error happening in here. And ID, like to chain this with a dot cat. And, I think its right here, catch. And I want to render out the error if anything happens. So, im going to say, consoleLOG error, and I want to see whats going on, if there is any error in the first place, right? Okay, so, I dont think theres any error, but something has to come from here, right?

12:08:32
So, whats going on in here? So, if you go into this, you can see, were essentially invoking the IPC renderer. But IPC reR renderer needs to also listen to this. So, theres a bunch of steps that need to be in place. So, if you see, were only doing get resources in here, only in this page, right?

12:08:51
So, I think this is a good time for us to go ahead and move on to the other part, which is doing the setup to get everything else like the windows and stuff set up. Okay, so, first thing were going to do is were going to go to our main Typescript file, and in here were going to do a bunch of setup for our application.

12:09:12
And, we also need to create three different entry points for different windows. Okay. So lets just take a quick pause, right Lets take a quick pause from the other stuff we were doing and lets go to this. And then hopefully, as we keep building and getting our, you know, all the windows and all the information we need, then we might be able to proceed further from here. Okay. All right.

12:09:35
So, first, right here, we have one window being created. This is inside the main typ script, under electron. We have a window being created for the entire browser window, right? So, this is pretty much good to go right here. But, we also need a bunch of other windows. And thats why I was explaining, saying, we have to create multiple different windows for this application. So, im going to say, let studio.

12:10:00
And thats also going to be of a type of browser window, like this. And we also need another one. And this one is called the floating webcam, which is also like a tray. Okay. So I'm going to quit the terminal, right now, because we dont really need it for a little while. And then when we do, well, come back to this. Okay.

12:10:20
And now, down in here, you see we have a bunch of settings for this window. For the main window, we have the icon, the web preferences, and so much more. But we need to do more on top of this. So first, were going to set the width, the height, the minimum width, and the minimum height as well. So im going to add those in there. And now, let me go ahead and say npm. Run dev.

12:10:44
Okay. And im going to close this window. And im going to render this one and lets go ahead and open the terminal, as well, the console. So we can see anything if needed. Okay, so now that we have this were setting, the width, and the height lets save this and lets take a look. Okay, you see the width and height is set to a certain width, right?

12:11:09
Lets set it to 200 And lets to see what happens. Okay, I think its an entire browser window inside this, but I think you get the point, right, you can change the width of the window, like this. So, go ahead and shrink this window. And now, if you go in here, and change this to 200. Now, youll notice that this window will shrink. Okay, I have a better version, right here. Let me close this one.

12:11:31
Okay, you see, so its shrinking accordingly. If I set this to 500, same thing, its going to change in size. Okay. You're not going to be able to see it, because it keeps refreshing. The other one was not refreshing, because it was on full screen. So, I'm going to set this one to 600. Okay, nice. Next, I want to give it a frame, and I'm going to set the frame to false.

12:11:55
I'm going to also want to remove this background here, right. So, remove this background right here. I want to remove all of this stuff. And for that, I have to set some settings as well. So, I'm just going to copy this once and for all, because it keeps throwing me back and forth, between different, different window windows. And its hard for me to show you guys, right, so, first thing is, I'm going to copy this.

12:12:15
And then ILL explain what we did in here. Its very simple stuff. Okay. So let me go ahead, copy this. And let me paste it in here. So, first thing is, we set width, height, minimum height, like this, the min width to 300 frame to false, transparent to true. Always on top to true, focusable to true. And the icon is the same thing. And the web preferences were going to add def tools.

12:12:42
True, context, isolation, true node integration, false and preload Were going to set this to preload, do MJS, the same thing that it had before. All right, so the cool thing now is this window can be placed on top of any other window. Okay, so its going to be like a layover. But you notice we still have this white border. So, turns out the frame is actually the one with the, with the menu options, right?

12:13:09
Like, cancel. And shrink, right? And even if I set the background color to anything, it doesnt really matter, doesnt change anything. Okay, so, thats something to keep in mind. So, how do we do this? Well, we can go into CSS right here, which is inside our source. And you should find your indexCSS file inside here. And we need to change the background color right here. Okay, so im going to set this to transparent.

12:13:36
And that should pretty much okay, looks like its not removing it. Give me one second. Okay, it did remove it, but the problem is you need to refresh, right? So, im also going to add Overflow, hidden, on top of this. And now, im going to go in here into my main file and just save. And that should reboot into this. Now, the other thing is, you might want to make this light mode.

12:13:59
So, I mean, its up to you, your pre personal preference, because, you know, you want it to stand on top of most, I guess, overlays, right? So, you could technically put a border on top of this, or you could change the background to white, its totally up to you. I'm going to go do some U modifications to this. And ILL, tell you how you can improve it.

12:14:20
All I did was I changed the, I added a border, and I did that inside the layout file. So, I went into layout right here. And inside this, I added border, two, border neutral of 700. Okay, so thats going to look like this. Now, if you're, wondering, why is your, not yours, not mounting to the top of the screen? Well, the reason is because we havent done part yet.

12:14:41
Okay, I did it on my end, just to test it out. And if you're not seeing it, its because of that. Okay, but first, we just created this window. So, im going to scroll down here. And im also going to need to create the other windows as well. Okay, so here, im going to say, studio equal to new browser window, were going to invoke this. And im going to pass in some of the styling.

12:15:04
Okay, and also, I'm just going to quit my terminal for now, because its going to keep routing me back to that page, and sending me back and forth. But so here first, I'm going to have some width height, the min max, same exact thing. Okay, so lets go ahead and do that. So width of 400. Please pause and type with me.

12:15:23
Okay, height of 50 min height of 70 max height of 400 min width of 300 max width of 400. And for this as well, were going to say frame false. Transparent. True. Always on top. True. Focusable, false as well. And now, for this were going to need an icon path. Well, I'm just going to use the same thing that I have above here. And we have also have to add the web preferences, right?

12:15:48
And its pretty much the same. So no integration. The same thing as false. True. For this. True. For dev tools. And the path is going to be preload. Do MJS. Okay, now, for the next window, this one is called the webcam, right? So lets go ahead and say floating webcam equal to new browser window, lets invoke that. And for this, were going to pass in the following style.

12:16:08
So I'm going to say width, height, min height, max height, min height, minwidth, max, and max width, and frame. Im going to set these values. And let me close this. And after this, I have to also put the same thing, which is the frame. Sorry, transparent. True. Always on top, true. Focusable, true and icon path like this. Now, if you're wondering, even though were saying always on top true here, why is it still not working?

12:16:34
Well, the reason, like I mentioned before, we have to, we have to essentially let it know that even on the full screen, we want it to be visible, right, right? Now, we havent done that. So, well, go ahead and do that. Once were done with this window. Okay. And finally, I have to add the web preferences. Im going to say same exact thing. Okay, copy and paste this down here.

12:16:54
Then after this now were going to essentially tell all these windows to load on the main screen. Okay. So, for this first, im going to do the, the window for the window itself, this one right here, W, n, right. So, im going to say, window like this. Also, I made some errors here, guys. Let me make sure I use the right. Okay. Its just not used somewhere. Thats why its throwing that?

12:17:19
Okay, so first window set, visible on all workspaces were going to set that to true, visible on full screen, and set that to true. So now, this will pretty much put that window on the main screen, okay, even on full screen. And then down here, for this, we also have to add another setting, which is set always on top.

12:17:38
So, on top of everything, this component window will always show, okay, then, for studio, were going to do the exact same thing. So here, im going to do studio, set, visible on all workspaces true, and say, visible on full screen, true. And then down here, set always on top, top to true screen saver, and one. Okay, this is just syntax stuff. Dont worry, if you dont understand.

12:17:59
I promise you, this project is going to be, so rewarding when everything works. Okay. So, now, down here, I honestly dont even know whats going on here, but I think this is just once the window starts to load, right? But you dont really have to, bo, dont, have, really have to care. Thats just, I'm, the reason why im sharing that with you, is that you dont have to know every single thing, okay.

12:18:19
They just have a boiler plate that runs under the hood. Now, I also want to do the same thing for, did, finish load, but for the studio. Okay. Because once that happens, I want to essentially fire some sort of an event. Okay. So, what im going to do in here, or not, really fire, I essentially want to create the, do the same step for the other window as well.

12:18:44
Okay, so studio web, contents, like this web contents, going to invoke this, and going to, sorry, its do on. So on. Did finish did finish load, this specific event were going to pass in the callback function. Thats going to do the exact same thing that is done right here, but for the studio version. Okay, so studio webc, contents send main process message, new, and you're going to pass in local string. Okay, thats it.

12:19:13
Then down here, we have this. If vite dev server, URL, I think, essentially lets see, I think this comes from our environment variable, right? Process, env. VUBL. Okay. All right. Nice. And thats, by default, it was already there, right? We did not touch anything. And, but what we have to do in here is we also have to load multiple different files. Okay. So, how do we do this?

12:19:39
So, right now, this window is loading this specific indexHTML, but were going to need a, a separate HTML for the studio, and for the floating webcam as well. Okay. So what you're going to do is scroll down here into, your file, were going to create another file in here were going to call the studio HTML. Okay. It has to be in the root of your folder.

12:20:03
All right, please dont, make this mistake, and then were going to create another one, were going to call it webcam. HTML, just like this. Okay. Okay. So, we have the studio file, and this one, so first lets go into the studio file, and we have to essentially add like a boilerplate HTML boiler plate in here. And I think we can do this with doc five. Or I used to have a. Ah, I forgot. Anyway.

12:20:29
Well, just type it out. So first thing, or let me see if I can do HTML. H. Oh, I used to, I used to use a snippet to give that for me. But anyway, so im going toate, create an HTML tag right here. I'm going to say language, is English and inside this HTML, im going to pass in the head tag.

12:20:48
And in the head tag, im going to say meta character set UTF8, the link for, essentially, you know, for the icon, so link relation icon type image, SVG plus XML. Hf. Is VSVG. And the meta, a meta tag in here that says name. Viewport. And the content is going to be with equal div minus width. And initial scale is going to be one. 10. Okay.

12:21:15
And for the title, you can set it as whatever you want, right Now, since this is the studio, I'm going to say studio. Okay, like this. And then we need to have a body tag. So in after, after the head tag, were going to say, body were going to create the ID root, because react is going to need this root element to pretty much render, right.

12:21:36
And now, we have to provide the script as to where it has to load. Lo, this file from, and the file thats going to load all this React stuff from is source, sl studio. Uncore. Main. TSX. And of course, we dont have that, right? We dont have that file, but were going to create that file eventually. And inside that file, were going to have all of the react related stuff.

12:21:59
And by react related stuff, what I essentially mean is, were going to have the, the one for the studio. Okay, so down here were going to create another file. So, im going to say like this, and this is inside my source, right root of the source folder. And im going to call this file studio. Do studio. Cor main. TSX. Okay. The exact same way we said, inside this HTML file. Okay, not this one.

12:22:27
Where is that HTML file? Okay. Its right here. Okay, studio. Main, TSX. Perfect. Okay. And all were going to do in here First, is im going to go back to the other main TSX file, which, which is not this one, the main TSX right here, and im going to copy everything from here. And im going to go into my studio main, and paste it in here. Okay, so paste that component.

12:22:52
And this app component is going to change soon. So were going to create another one in here. And lets say, like this, create another file, were going to call this studio, cora TSX. Okay. And now were going to go into this component. And instead of importing in this from the app. TSX, were going to import it from a different file. Okay, so dot slash, okay, do slash. And I need to add the studio app. TSX.

12:23:24
Okay, looks like I'm making an error here. Sorry, guys, I'm in the wrong file. I have to go in here and then make the change inside this one. So, here, im going to change this to studio app. TSX. Okay. Now, of course, nothing is being exported from here. So, we have to go ahead and export that. So, im going to click on the app. TSX. In here. Copy this component. Click on studio app. TSX.

12:23:51
And paste it in here. So, it just solves that error for me. Okay, nice. Thats it. Okay. Now, inside this component, were going to have a studio tray component and the studio tray is going to render. You know, our pause the square button, all that, all that kind of stuff, right? Remember, I showed you the design. Thats pretty much it.

12:24:11
So, what im going to do here is, for now, I'm, I'm just going to remove this, and I'm just going to have a an H1 tag, H1, or H2, or H1, actually. And inside this, I'm just going to say studio component. Okay. And lets remove this, lets remove all these. So, I dont have this error anymore. And now, I know this is the studio component. And in here were rendering the right component. All right. Awesome.

12:24:38
Now, we also need to tell our ViTE configuration file, where to get this, where to essentially get this file location. So, it can use that as an entry point. Okay, so click on your invite config file. And im going to hit enter here. And during build, im going to tell it that you are going to get these entry points from these specific files.

12:25:01
Okay, so the empty out directory, were going to set that to false, and were also going to set manifest to true. Then the out distribution folder or output directory here is going to be, for now.

12:25:16
I think, im not sure if its going to be dist electron or dist, but I'm just going to put dist, because I think when we build its going to create another folder for us, and then we have to get rollup options. Okay. And, if you dont know what rollup, js is, you can take a look at it, and let me see if I can open it and give you some information on it as well.

12:25:35
So, rollup essentially is a module bundler. So, very similar to something like web back. And, you know, other type of bundlers that we have, rollup is essentially used inside electron. So, I'm going to go back and I'm going to use this in here. And im going to invoke it. Sorry, I'm going to pass in an object for it.

12:25:54
Im going to say the input, which is the files that you're going to, you need to expect are going to come from here. So the main file is going to be, were going to say resolve, directory name, right? So this is how we get directory structure in NodeJS, right? So, you're, going to say directory name, like this, with two underscores, okay. And were going to say INDEXHTML. And this resolve actually comes from node path.

12:26:19
So lets go ahead and import that. So, im going to go up top here. Okay, so IVE already imported path, so I need to just get the resolve from this as well. Okay, nice. And after this, we need the other studio, import as well, input as well. So were going to say studio. Like this. Nice. And now we can go back to our main Typescript. And let me search for this. Where is this? Exactly. Okay.

12:26:44
Right here. And inside this part, we essentially have to let it know that you want to load the URL from that specific endpoint that we just created. So, I'm going to say, studio. Load URL. Okay. You're going to invoke that. And you're going to pass in http. Do local host, or you might want to use the production links, right? So you can make that change before you push.

12:27:10
But for now, I'm just going to call it local host. All right, guys. So, I went into my environment file, and I created another variable in here called vite app. URL. And I set that equal to http. Dolal. Host 5173. Okay. And im going to go back here. All right. And in here, I'm just going to grab this value. Okay, so im going to say, oops, I just made an error here.

12:27:36
Let me go back and copy the right value here. So, I need this one. And im going to go back and let me quickly replace this. So, in order to import a environment variable, you have to say, import meta dov, and then the value, right. So im going to paste that in here. So, import meta. Env. And im going to pass in the other values that I need as well. Okay.

12:28:01
And now, if you run the dev server, you're going to see two things in here. Okay, you're going to first notice a, a window that looks like this. And for some reason, im able to kind of scale this and drag it up and down. But this is going to be our tray. And this is going to be our main window. Okay.

12:28:20
The reason why its showing up like this is because we just copy pasted some stuff, right? So, I just wanted to show you what that looks like. Anyway, so lets move on. And im also going to quit the terminal, so, it doesnt keep sending me back to a different screen. And in here, after this part, now that we have loaded the studio, we also want to load the floating web cam.

12:28:40
And for this first, im going to do this in here. And then ILL, go create my environment file. Okay, not environment. ILL, go create the HTML file. So, I'm going to say load URL. And im going to pass in this value, right? But, I made a small error here. Guys, we have to first put the dynamic, were going to put the back tiex in here, and we have to render the right path, right?

12:29:06
So, this is going to be dollar sign and were going to put the curly bracket and then were going to put studio. HTML. Okay, like this, because it was rendering this one All right. And then down here, we also want to put the other one. So, I'm going to say dollar sign, like this. And after this, I'm going to say webcam. HTML.

12:29:31
So, I think thats why it was showing the other component inside the same studio component as well. Let me try to see if I can. And render this. Let me just see what happens. Okay. So, npm run dev, lets just give that a second. All right. Awesome. Now, I have the other studio component, but im not able to drag it or show it, because its on a different screen.

12:29:54
But you have to just, trust me, bro. Okay. All right. Now, I'm going to quit this and lets proceed from here. Another thing in here that we need to do is when essentially, if we dont, have the dev server in production, we have to have the rendered distribution folder, which is essentially, I think its going to be one of these, the distribution folders itself, right? The DD. And from there, theyre getting indexHTML.

12:30:20
So, we have to do the same thing for the other folders as well, the other files as well. So here, im going to say, studio. Loadfile. And then floating webCAM, loadfile. And I have to say path, jooin, the same thing, but here, I have to change this to studio HTML. And this one is going to be webcam. HTML. All. All right, now open up your folder structure.

12:30:41
And you want to scroll to the bottom, and lets go ahead and first, complete the webcam HTML file. So, this is essentially pretty much the exact same thing as the studio HTML. So, im going to copy everything in here. Im going to go down in here into this file, paste it. And now, I just need to change the path. So this has to get it from the webcam.

12:31:02
So were going to create another module, right, called webcore cam main, main, TSX, right? And thats where were going to get the main file for this, this HTML. All right. So here, you're going to scroll up into your root directory, inside source, you're going to create another file, you're going to call it web camore main. TSX.

12:31:27
And you're going to go into your studio, main, you're going to copy everything in here, and paste it inside your webcam main. Okay, then you're going to create another file in here called webcore camore app. TSX. And you're going to click on this studio app. TSX. And you're going to paste it inside the app in here, the webcam app, and were going to rename this one. And were going to call this webcam app.

12:31:52
Okay, webcam component. This is fine. And now lets go back here and lets also update this. So, I want to change this to webcam app. And that should solve this problem right here. Okay, now, we also have to do the ViTE configuration. So, go into your ViTE file, and, and were going to set the webcam main right here, and were going to say its, the webcam HTML. So, please roll up, use this file.

12:32:17
Thats what were telling it, right here. Okay, awesome. Now, lets go back and lets try to do npm runeV and lets just give this a second. All right, awesome. Now, I see two components, I'm, just not able to grab them and show you. But I have essentially the webcam component and a studio comp component and this compon component as well. All right. You can go ahead and do it yourself.

12:32:42
And you can probably see from there too. All right, now we have this window, all closed event, right? And if you remember, we also fire this from our main file, right? From our main typescript. Let me see if I can show you. Sorry, guys, its not its not window. All closed. I got the wrong event. The event were firing is called close app. Right?

12:33:04
And you can find this inside our file, because were we are fire ing it, when the user clicks on the X icon on the app, right? So, this is going to do something else. This is behind the scenes, but we also need to create an IPC main listener. Okay, so this comes from electron. Let me just make sure, yep, it comes from Electron.

12:33:27
And I'm going to say, dot on, and I'm going to listen for close app. Okay. And when this happens, I'm going to pass in a call back, that should get fired. And all I wanted to do is I want to search and check if the platform is not equal to darvin like this. And down here, I'm going to say, app, quit going to quit everything. And then I'm going to set window equal to null.

12:33:51
Studio equal to null as well. And then the floating webcam equal to null as well. And im going to copy this step guys right here. And im going to replace exactly what I have in here with the same thing. All right. So, thats essentially going to help us close the application in itself. So, ILL, go ahead and test that out. Now, to see how thats working. So, open up your folder.

12:34:14
And im going to go into my app. TsX, im going to click on the controller layout. And right here, I just want to confirm that I have the Onclose app callback. Okay, you see window. Ic render, do send close app. Right? So, lets go ahead, open up our terminal and say, npm RuneV and lets give this a shot. Okay, so I have this in here.

12:34:36
And if I close this, okay, so some, something seems to be going wrong. Let me fix this real quick. Just give me a second. All right, so I might be wrong here. And please correct me if I am wrong, but I dont think you can quit anything on Mac. So, I was just reading this comment. And it looks like, except on Mac OS devices, its, you cant, really close the window.

12:34:59
So, if you are on Windows, you might be able to get this to work. It would just quit the entire application. But, if you're on Mac devices, youll have to rightclick the app in your doc. And you're going to need to quit from there. Okay, and I took a look at a bunch of stack overflow, you know, threads as well. They are pretty much saying the exact same thing.

12:35:18
And another way to simulate it is you can hide it. And I think thats how Mac actually does it. It doesnt fully close the app itself, it just minimizes the application. Okay. So, if you're, wondering if you do have a Mac, and you're, wondering, what the hell is going on Thats, thats exactly whats going on? All right. Okay.

12:35:36
So, now that we have the close app right here, here, lets move on after this, right to the bottom right here. And im also going to quit my terminal, cuz. I dont need it anymore. So, down here, I'm going to say IPC main were going to basically set up all the events that we need, guys. And the events that we need here is stuff like resize, studio, hide, plugins, media, storage, all that kind of stuff.

12:36:02
Okay. So, in here, im going to say IPC main handle, and were going to handle for get resources or get sources. Okay, so were going to say handle, get sources and were going to pass in a call back function. Okay, and we are also firing this inside our, our libs folder, right? Remember, when were trying to invoke get sources, right? And this happens from one of the components.

12:36:32
And let me see if I can find that as well. Where is this component? I think it is probably our, not our widget. Get sources. Fetch media, fetch media sources somewhere here. Guys, we were going to need to also fire that regardless were going to need this. So, we can essentially grab the data, right? Let me just also, take a look at my UOLS file. Why did it not show The UOLS file, did it?

12:37:04
Oh, it did never mind. So, there you go. You see, when were trying to get the media sources, which were doing again, inside our use media hook, right, right here were trying to invoke get media sources like this, right, that time, were going to need to also fire that event, invoke that event. And here, we need to handle that event, when its being invoked.

12:37:25
Okay, so, for get resources in here, im going to say return, and im going to say await, or actually, let me change this to an asyn component first. And im going to say, await. Desktop, capture. So, desktop, capture from Electron Doget sources were going to invoke this. And inside this were going to pass in the thumbnail. Size. And im going to say height is going to be 100 width is going to be 150. Okay.

12:37:53
And now, after this, we also need to say, fetch, windows. Icons were going to set this to true. And then, for types were going to set the windows. And we also need screen, okay, like this. So, this is essentially going to help us handle getting resources of the device. Okay, next were going to need to do one more down here, which is to get media sources and media sources are stuff like the microphone, right?

12:38:21
Or the studio, the studio web components, essentially. So, lets go ahead and grab that. So im going to say, IPC main, IPC main, like this. AndON were going to invoke, doon, and in here were going to say media sources. So, media sources. And for this, again, were going to need a callback function. And this callback is going to give us to the event and payload. So, im going to grab these from here.

12:38:49
And inside this, im first going to print this out, if you know, we need to debug or anything. And down here, im going to say, studio, web contents, send, and were going to send profile das received, and were going to pass in the payload load. Okay, just like this. Awesome. And please, do not make any spelling errors in the, in these events.

12:39:16
Okay, I cannot help you, because its going to be very difficult to debug this. Okay, so let me just pass this in here. All right, nice. The next one is another event called resize studio. And its like this IPC mon resize studio, and the call back were going to essentially print the event, were going to say, if payload, do shrink, studio, set size to 400, and 100. And you can take a look at what this is.

12:39:42
So width and height. And then, if payload is not equal to shrink, then were going to say 400 into 50. Okay, then were going to have another IPC event here called hide plugin. And in here were going to say, window, web contents, send hide plugin. Okay, thats pretty much it. And we have the on ready at the bottom. So, when ready do then, and were essentially creating the window itself. Great job.

12:40:12
Now, if you try to run the application, its going to tell you that an error occurred inside the get resources. And I think this is because we have to respond to this, right? So, we have to give this application access to our devices. Now, on Windows, I dont think priority U. I mean, a lot of priori is given for security.

12:40:32
So, you might be able to bypass this, but im going to try my best to see if W, if Mac is also going to help me ignore it and just give me one second. Okay, so, I just went into the settings and I gave access to my devices. So, cursor wanted access. So, I did this. And the other thing is, I think this is a new update. Okay.

12:40:53
You can only give it for one month at a time. So, just go ahead and click. Yes. For this as well. And its going to try to get access to that. And that should be good so far. I'm still seeing this weird error here. Let me see what, whats going on. Okay, so, I think the reason why that was happening is because I need to open my browser version as well.

12:41:15
Cuz, I had to reset, kind of like restart everything. So, let me go ahead and say, okay, so we have our regular application. All right. Nice. So, open up the terminal and say, BUN, runeV. And thats going to spin that up for me. And I also have to make a request to this. But, I mean, I dont, really have to. But let me go ahead and refresh my app here. All right, there we go.

12:41:41
And that solved our error. Great job. All right, guys. Now, just to make sure im getting the resources, im going to print the resources in the terminal. And if you can see in here, lets open our terminal. If you scroll to the bottom, you're going to see that we are printing each and every single screen. Okay, so, this looks like its working. So, nice.

12:42:00
All right, if you dont, see this, for some reason, again, guys, just reach out in the discord and the community will help you. Okay, so, now that we have this, lets move on to kind of getting our resources set up and the components itself. So, click on app. TsX.

12:42:15
Go into the button right in here, and you can click on the media configuration component, and then lets con lets pretty much complete the this exact component right here. So, I'm just going to quit the terminal or if it will allow me. Okay, it just looks like theres an error. Okay, ILL keep this for now. If it bugs me too much, im going to, im going to close it.

12:42:37
But, essentially, down here were going to say, if is pending. So like this is pending and is pending is going to come from one of the hooks actually right here. So, im going to say, if is pending, like this, if this is true, and were going to return a div. Okay, and looks like I made another error here. So, let me remove that. Remove this as well.

12:43:00
And inside this div were going to give the following class name. So, im going to say fixed like this. And z 50 withd full top zero, left zero, right, right, zero, bottom zero. So its essentially stretched across, rounded to XL, height, full Bg. Black divided by 80. And then flex, justify center and item center. And in here, I'm going to create the spinner component. Okay. Or a loader component. So lets bring that in. Nice.

12:43:31
And now, after this down here, once we get the devices were going to render a div. And inside this div, im going to actually set the following class names. So, I'm going to say flex gap, x of 5, justify center and item center. And then im going to get the monitor icon, which comes from lucid React. So, go ahead and import that icon. And you should see it like this. Okay.

12:43:54
And after the input, after the monitor, we want to render out a select component. And for each display, we want to map over them and return an option. Okay, very simple stuff. So lets go ahead and grab that as well. So, I'm going to say, select like this, and I'm going to return a, I'm going to essentially use a register element in here, right?

12:44:17
Use a D structure and D structure, our register, which comes from use form. I'm going to pass in the class name outline. None. Cursor pointer, padding, Xfi. You guys can just pause and type this. Then for each of these, im going to render an option. Thats it. Okay, so you can see, I can click on this and I can pretty much change to different type of settings. Okay, screen one, screen two, whatever I want.

12:44:39
And this is the display, essentially. Now, after this down here, were going to find this div hit. Enter, were going to create another div. And this div is for the audio. So its, for the microphone. So im going to say, flex gap, xfi, justify center item, center. And in here, im going to get the headphones icon. So, lets go ahead and say headphones and im going to provide the following color, just like this.

12:45:03
And after this again, same thing were going to render out a select element and were going to show the different audio inputs. Okay, so im going to say select, im going to use form and the register. Just use a spread operator and put it in here. And then im going to pass in the class name. And then im going to loop over each of these options. And so, im going to say state audio inputs, map.

12:45:26
And for each device, im going to render this specific option. Okay. And what is this selected? So, essentially, which one is the default value, right? So which one are we going to select here? So, if we have the audio device, and the audio device is equal to the device, device, ID, then this is essentially going to be true right here. Okay, so, you guys can just copy this.

12:45:49
Its pretty much the same thing were just rendering out some values. And, as you can see, I have a bunch of audio inputs. And right now, if you're curious, im using this microphone, okay. Its a really, really nice microphone. And right down here, im going to add another div. And this div is going to have the following class name. So, im going to say flex gap, x. Just, I mean, pretty much the same thing.

12:46:10
And here, im going to render a settings component. Okay. So return a settings icon first. Like this. Let me see if theres a better settings icon. I think theres only one type. Okay. You can render whatever you want. I think this one looks slightly better, right? Maybe, I dont know. So, im going to render this component. And in here, im going to return a select component, okay, with one different option.

12:46:34
So, first, were going to say select, then were going to use the spread operator for, to register this element. Then I'm going to provide the following class names. And after this, im going to create an option in here. Okay, that shows 720p or 1080p. And this is based on their plan, guys. Okay, so this is super, super important right here. This application is so powerful.

12:46:58
Take a look at this, were showing you how you can essentially give users the ability to change, you know, their, the quality of the video based on their tier. So you can pretty much set as many, you know, filters as you want to give them access to cool features. Okay, so in here were saying, pretty much the same thing. The most important part is the value should be HD.

12:47:22
And value should be SD right here, and also selected. Okay, so right here, you want to render, sorry, right here, you want to disable this based on their plan. Okay, so, for example, if this was set to true, like this, then if we try to hit this, you see, we cant select that item. Okay, so thats pretty much it. And thats it. Thats all for this component.

12:47:47
Simple, right now, lets go back and lets see if we can create anything else left in here. Let me take a look. All right, nothing else left in here. So, lets go back to the other windows and lets complete those as well. So, go ahead and click on the studio app. TSX. And then here were going to remove this component and were going to return a new component called studio tray.

12:48:12
Okay, and go ahead and copy this. You want to open up your folder structure, and lets scroll into global components. I'm going to create another folder called studio tray. And in here, an index, tsx. And lets also return a component and rename this component as well. Okay, so the first thing were going to do in here is, I'm going to, well, I dont really need any props. So, ILL, just remove this for now.

12:48:38
Okay, because you're going to get a bunch of build Typescript errors because of es lin. So, go ahead and remove that. And first thing is, I need to get an initial time. So, I'm going to say initial time equal to new date. Okay. And I'm going to render this initial time inside this component itself. Okay. Youll pretty much see where its going to, where its going to show up.

12:48:58
Now, I dont have a design for this, so im not able to show you guys what it looks like, but just keep building with me. And then eventually, youll, see the design just kind of come in picture. Okay. So, im going to create a div in here. And im going to set flex. Flex. DC column, justify end. And I want to set gapy of five and height of screen. Okay.

12:49:20
And now lets go back to our studio tray component and lets import this component itself. And now, if you're, running your terminal, you should see that component show up. Okay. And I also, im going to add draggable. What was the class name that we had for that? Okay, you dont have to do this. I'm doing it right here, because I want to show you that the component exist, it exists.

12:49:45
Okay, it looks awful, but I promise you, it does exist. So, you can do this if you want as well. And the main reason is because it shows up on a different monitor, for me. So, thats why I have to kind of bring it, bring it up like this. Okay. I think I might have solved this problem. Im, not entirely sure, but, well, figure it out.

12:50:03
But as you can see, I have the webcam component as well, showing, okay, its just not placed on top, but eventually, well, get to all that stuff. But thats it. So, now, you see, we have this component right here. Right? Okay, cool. Now, lets, go ahead and continue. So, inside this div component, were going to render out a video component. Okay, and this is going to have the following.

12:50:24
So were going to say, autop playay, like this, and were going to say, ref is going to be a video element. And this video element is going to come from a ref element. So lets go ahead and say const video element equal, use ref, and lets import that. And inside this, this is going to be of type HTML video elements, or null. And for now, im going to set this to null. Okay.

12:50:53
And inside this video, im going to essentially have a class name. So, lets go ahead, and also, im going to change this to a closed component. I'm going to say class name. And I'm going to need CN for this. And im going to set it to width of 6.12, border 2 self end. And if we are previewing this component, then were essentially going to show hidden in here, or, well, show the elements.

12:51:20
And now, where does this preview come from? So up here were going to say, const preview, its just a state, okay, preview, and you set, and this is going to be false, by default. And why is use state not being imported? Okay, there we go. And this is just going to be set to false. All right, so, right now, you cant see it. But if I bring it up, you can now see it.

12:51:42
Okay, now, next thing is down here. Inside this, after this video component, not inside, right here, I'm going to hit enter. And im going to create another div. And this div is going to have the following styles. So were going to say, rounded, full. Let me move this. So you guys can see clearly, so rounded, full flex justify, around item, center height of two, with full order two, and background of this, and draggable.

12:52:12
Okay, so, essentially, if you see this, this component can be, you can, you can pretty much move it whatever you want. And this is going to be the video player. Okay, hope that makes sense. So, right now, I also see that there is some sort of a border radius. And I think that border radius essentially comes from all of this. Let me move this. Actually, I made a small error here.

12:52:37
Okay, its also looks like I can also increase the size of it. So, you might want to change that with a class. And I think I do have something that can do that. But, for now, im also going to remove dragable on this element, which is this one. And im going to make only this element dragable. Okay, so, yeah, it looks like I can increase the height and width.

12:52:59
And that might just be some setting stuff. But im not too bothered about it. Okay, so inside this, now, im going to create another div. And this div is going to have, first, were going to dynamically render an onclick handler. Okay, so, for this onclick handler, were going to need some values. So, lets see if we can get that up here right now. So, well, call this on sources. Okay.

12:53:28
And we want set on sources like this equal to use state. And this is going to have the following type. So, im going to copy this and paste it in here. So, please pause the screen and type along with me. Okay, so were going to say sources on sources. And this is going to have an object or undefined. So its going to be an object of screen ID, audio, preset and plan. Okay.

12:53:52
Thats pretty much it. So, now, down here, inside this div, I can dynamically render this based on that. Okay. So for this, you need to create this object like this, and were going to use a spread operator. And you dont need react here. I dont know why that came. And in here, we want to say, on sources, if this exists, then were going to return an object here called onclick.

12:54:17
Okay, this is how you can use the spread operator to conditionally render props on an element. And this is, of course going to need a callback function. And in here were going to need two functions. Okay, so im going to go up top here, not function, sorry, were going to need two values. So, the first one is, were going to create a state called recording. And, and set recording. And this is equal to use state.

12:54:42
And lets invoke that were going to set that to false. Okay, and this, what just happened here? Why does this? Okay, never mind. So, were going to take this and were going to put set recording and were going to invoke it. And we need to pass in true. Okay, so this is essentially the button thats going to allow the user to start recording their U, their screen. Okay.

12:55:06
And once this is done, we also need to have a server action that can essentially help us record, not server action, guys. I keep saying server action, but we also have to create a video transfer file, right? If you remember, we have to turn on the recorder and do a bunch of stuff, right? So, lets go ahead and do that. So, this one is called start recording. So, im going to say, start recording like this.

12:55:33
And were going to copy this and were going to open up our folder structure were going to go into libs, right in here, were going to create a recorder, typescript file. And in here were going to export, const, start recording. Okay, and this is going to be an arrow function. And this is going to takeen on sources, which is going to be an object with screen set to a string. Okay.

12:55:58
And then audio, which is set to a string as well. And finally, ID, which is set to a string as well. Okay. And then in here, first, were going to, to need to hide a plugin. Okay.

12:56:10
So, in order to do this, and the reason why were doing this is, we dont, want some, we dont want some windows to show up inside our recording, right, so, lets go ahead, open up our utils, files, and were going to scroll down to the bottom. Were going to say, export const, okay, and this one is called hide, a plugin window. And its going to be a state like this.

12:56:33
And this is going to be state were going to get a boolean value in here. And in this all were going to do, what seems to be the issue here. Okay, its never used. And in here were going to say, window ic renderer, do send, and were going to fire the hide, das plugin. Okay, and in here were also going to pass in the state.

12:56:58
Now, if you take a look at this inside, our main file, were also listening to this event. And we are sending some events from here as well, right? So, IPC on this hide event, plugin were saying, window, webC, contents send, were sending this exact data in here. Okay, so lets go back. Now, one more file, okay, and insider on sources were going to first invoke the hide plugin.

12:57:23
So were going to say, hide plugin, window were going to invoke this. And after this, we need to create our transfer file name, right? So, I'm going to say, video transfer file name, like this. It, and equal to backtick, dollar sign, and were need UU ID. So, open up your terminal and just say npMI, UU ID. And thats going to install a package for us.

12:57:47
And this package is going to essentially help us create IDs. Okay, so scroll up here and you can say import V4 as UU ID from UU ID. And it also needs types, I believe. Let me just take a look. Okay, so I'm going to copy this and paste it in here. And hit enter. Thats going to solve that problem for me. And next, I'm going to go ahead and create this value.

12:58:13
Okay, so in here, first, I also need to pass in true. And for this value, sorry, guys, for this, I can create const in here, and then set this. Or what ILL do is ILL, go up top to the, all the way to the top. And, ILL say, let video transfer file name string or undefined. Okay, so I can create some types for this.

12:58:38
And in here, first, im going to say, UU ID, like this UU ID, and I'm going to invoke this. So it creates a dynamic ID on the fly. And after this, I'm going to put a dash, dollar sign, curly bracket on sources, doid and do slice and were going to slice from 0 to8. Okay, were just creating a name for our file. Thats pretty much it. Okay, so it doesnt really matter.

12:59:07
You can just use the ID itself. I'm doing this, because I want to have different formats, or pretty much not different formats. But I want to do this, because I want to have a specific format for the name, okay. And this is going to be webm. And down here, I'm going to say media recorder, media recorder. Okay, let me go up top and create this variable. Sorry. So, go up here.

12:59:31
I'm going to say, lets media recorder. And this is going to be of type media recorder. Okay. So now I can get type intelligence for this. And now I can set this equal to a, not equal guys, I can actually call this. So I can say, do start were going to invoke it. And inside this, we can pass in 1000. Okay, awesome. Now, lets go back. I think I made an error here.

12:59:59
What seems to be, the error is declared, but its value was never used. Interesting. Okay, its, because were just setting it here, right? Were not actually using this value. So thats probably why it was giving that error. I mean, that is why its giving that error. So, lets go back. And now import our start recording function. And we need to also pass in on sources Inside this. Okay, cool.

13:00:23
Now, where are we getting the on sources. So scroll up here and were going to essentially listen to our IPC renderer. And on the event called profile received, were then going to set our resources with the payload. So lets go ahead and say, window, IPC, renderer, doon okay, invoke, this were going to say, profile, DAS received.

13:00:47
Okay, and in here were going to invoke this and pass in, sorry, pass in a call back function, which is going to give us the event, and the payload, sorry. And in here were going to say, consolelog event, if we need to see. And then im going to say, set on sources. And I'm going to set this to the payload thats being passed in. So were getting all our sources from this event.

13:01:09
And if you dont know what this is, you can literally take a look at where were firing this event, right? And then youll come to know. But, yeah, thats it. So, were just passing this and getting the payload for the profile information, and were just setting the sources in here. Okay, now lets go down.

13:01:26
And now that we have our sources, we also want to make sure we have the sources before we render this or were going to have an error, right? So, what, well, do, guys, is wrap this, right? And, or let me do this instead. So, I'm going to say return. If no. On sources, right? If this is true, were going to do something. If not, well, do something else. So copy this entire thing right here.

13:01:53
Remove this, and were going to paste this right here. Okay. And for if it was, if the statement is true, then, well, just return an empty react fragment. Okay, lets scroll down here. And I also want to pass in some class names on this div. So, im going to say class name. No. Draggable. Okay. I'm going to set it to rounded full cursor pointer, relative hover opacity 80 Recording.

13:02:19
If this is true, then were going to make it red color. If not, well, make it this kind of like salmon color. Okay. All right. So, I went ahead and fixed this bug. And essentially, what was going on is right here, when we are trying to set, let me see if I can show you. So you can also see it, right, so, this is how this works initially.

13:02:39
When we start our application, this is the main window. And this does everything, right? This is going to send all of the resources to all other windows through events. Okay. And, of course, some of them are also were also listening to on this place itself.

13:02:55
So, for example, the media sources, right If you take a look at where were firing this, youll notice that were doing this inside one of the one of the compon, this component, right? Theres a hook called use studio, ser, use studio settings, and thats firing in this component. So, when thats being fired, the first problem is right here, the user does not have any kind of preset, right?

13:03:21
We had something called add and preset right here. But when were getting data from the database, the user does not have that preset by default. So, because of that, it was never entering this IPC. Render, do Sendevent. Okay. And so, thats the first thing. So, once I saw this problem, that means I removed it, it, it was then running the use effect itself. So thats, good news. But down here, we never had a dependency.

13:03:47
And the screen and audio essentially was updated after the first render, because it takes some time, right. And the EAS effect usually fires twice, right? It fires the first time. And then when the dependencies update as well. So, that was a problem. So, remove this, keep it like this, and add these two values in the dependency array. And now, just to show you that it actually works, I'm going to quit this.

13:04:11
And I'm going to go ahead and say, npm run dev. And now, its going to spin up the first one. And then few seconds after, once, I get the resources, boom, there we go. Okay. And, as you can see in here, I have the event, which is now fired. And this event comes from our main file right here. Okay. So, you see, I put some cool emoji. So I can, it can help me debug.

13:04:35
And, you see right here, its saying, this is the payload. And this is the event, so media sources. So this is how I was able to kind of debug. Okay. All right. This applications. Insane, man. Im having so much fun. I really like electron, its a little bit. I mean, its a little annoying, but I think its, its really cool, because im communicating with a web application. And I have a native application as well, right?

13:05:00
Really, really cool. All right. So now, right here, im going to remove this. And we never had this as well. Well, okay. Just assume you never saw that. And what were going to render here is if the user is recording, then we want to show a pause icon. Okay, and if they are not, right, were just going to keep it like this. So, what do we do for this?

13:05:22
Well, inside this, inside this div first, were going to say if the user was recording. So recording like this, if they were recording, then we want to render out a span. Okay, a span tag. And inside this, im going to set the following class name. So this is going to have absolute right, 16, top, I made an error here. So right, okay. 6. Top half, transform, translate y half, negative, half, and text, white. Okay.

13:05:53
And inside this, im going to put the timer in here. Okay. And the timer is something that, of course, I need to create. So im going to go up, top, all the way up here. And I'm going to say cons timer and set timer. And this is equal to UST state, its a string, and by default, were going to put 0,0.0. Okay, put the same way. I have it right in here.

13:06:14
Now, down here, I'm going to change this to Ontimer. Okay, awesome. And now, im rendering the timer down in here. Okay, now, the other thing is, when do we start this timer? Well, when we start recording, right? So, when the state updates, then we want to essentially start our timer and do pretty much whatever we need to. All right, now, to keep track of this timer, I might also need a counter.

13:06:41
So, I'm going to say const counter, or count and set count. And im going to set this equal to UST state, and this is going to be a number, and its going to be zero, by default. And now, to activate this, I'm going to say, use effect. Okay, and im going to pass in an empty, depend, not an empty, sorry, im going to pass in this value, which is recording.

13:07:03
Because only once this updates, do we want to fire this use effect, right? So, once this updates were going to first, make sure that the user is recording. So if theyre not recording, then we want to return, okay, and were going to say const record time interval. So interal equal to set interval, were going to invoke this. And as the callback function were going to do the following.

13:07:30
So were going to say, let time equal count, plus, were going to say new date, not data transfer, sorry, new date were going to invoke this. And after this were going to say get time, and were going to invoke this as well, minus the initial time. And for, we can also store this initial time somewhere up here. So let me go ahead and create a value all the way up here.

13:07:57
And I'm going to say, initial time is new date. Okay, so, when we start, the application were going to essentially subtract, were going to create this new time here. And then down here, here were going to subtract this from it. So, im going to say initial time, get time, Okay. And then I'm going to set the counter, the count to this time. Okay, what seems to be the error here. Use const instead.

13:08:23
Oh, okay. Cool. Well, it just wants me to do that. No problem. And then im going to also need to essentially get this in terms of, in, in like a format, right? So, im going to use a, a helper function. And this helper function is called video recording time. So lets go ahead and open up our util folder. Our utils file. Okay, right here.

13:08:48
And at the bottom, I'm going to do export const video recording time, which is going to be an arrow function. Its going to take milliseconds, which is a number. And in here, I'm going to say const second equal math floor. And I'm actually going to copy this formula. So I dont make any spelling errors, but I'm, I'm going to say math, floor, milliseconds. Th000. Divide percentage, 602 string pad. Start 2 to zero.

13:09:16
Okay, and next, just copy this guys. All right. This is just like a formula. Its not important. I'm just going to paste the minute and hour as well. Pretty much the same thing. Just make sure you make these adjustments. And then after this, im going to return an object with length set to the following. So, im going to, to create a string literal. And im going to pass in the hour minute, and the second.

13:09:42
And then after that, I need to also pass in the minute here. Return the minute as well. Okay, now lets go back and lets go back here. And now we can invoke this video recording time. So, im going to set it to a variable. Im going to say const recording time equal video recording time, and im going to pass in this time inside this.

13:10:03
Okay, next, if the user has a free tier, then, were going to only limit them to record only for 5 minutes. So, im going to say, if sources plan, if on sources plan, is equal to free tier, then im going to say recording time. Do and recording time minute is equal to 5. Then im only going to allow them to set recording to FS. Okay, or actually, sorry, guys here, I'm doing it by default.

13:10:35
So, if they are in a freeer, and its 5 minutes were going to instantly stop recording. Okay. And for clear time, its going to be a helper function. I'm going to go all the way up top right here after this. And im going to say, clear time equal to an error function that essentially sets our timer to zero, and sets count to zero as well. Okay. And then were going to have our stop recording helper.

13:10:59
This is going to need the media recorder, right? Remember, we created a media recorder. And, or maybe I dont think, think we did that. Let me just take a look. So, if you scroll down and go into our recorder, where is this? Inside the libs folder. Okay, we did create the media recorder. All right, no problem. So, all we need to do now is, were going to say, export const. Stop recording.

13:11:23
And this is going to invoke the media recorder and were going to essentially stop recording itself. All right, now lets go back and lets import the stop recording. Awesome. And then after this, we want to also set our timer. So, were going to say, set on timer to the recording time that we just got from here, length. Okay, so that pretty much that string.

13:11:47
And then if time is less than, or equal to zero, then were going to set our timer to zero, right? Reset it all the way. And were also going to need to clear our, clear the interval. So, let me go ahead and clear this interval here. All right. Awesome. And now, after this part, where is this Right here, the interval, right? This is the first parameter.

13:12:09
Were going to have a second parameter, which is what is the type of interval itself. So, I'm just going to put one in here, its like the number, right? So you can, this is milliseconds, essentially. And you can hover over this, and you can check. Okay, so after this were going to return a cleanup function, thats going to essentially clear this interval for us.

13:12:30
So, clear interval, and were going to pass in the timer interval, the record time interval. Okay, awesome. So, every time recording gets updated, were essentially doing something in here. Okay, why is this? Okay, it wants count. We dont need that. Okay, dont put all this stuff in here. Okay, anyways.

13:12:50
Now, scrolling lets scroll down after this, after this div right here were going to say, if the user is not recording, then were going to return something or, well, return something else. And then here were going to return a pause button. Okay, okay, and this pause button is actually an icon. So, im going to import the pause icon. And I'm going to pass in the class name.

13:13:15
No, non draggable opacity of 50, size 32, phill, white stroke, none. Okay, then after this down here, if they were recording, then we also want to give them the ability to stop, right? So, for this, im going to render a square component. And this is an icon from Lucid React. And its going to have size equal to 32 class nond draggable, cursor pointer.

13:13:43
Hover scale, one, 110 transform transition, dur duration, 150. The fill is going to be white. And for, on click, when the user clicks on, this were going to set recording to false, were going to clear the timer and were going to stop recording itself. And this is the action that we created here. Okay, so lets go back. And now, after this, the next one is going to be a cast icon.

13:14:06
Okay, so hit enter here, and you're going to say, cast from lucid reacts, okay, and lets give that a second. And in here were essentially going to pass in the on click, and the size 32 fill white, non draggable, and cursor pointer hover opacity of 60. And then stroke white. All right, guys. Now, it turns out that this is technically, it is still there.

13:14:30
But sometimes this is kind of like you can, you can change the height and width. And I dont really know why thats happening. But let me just take a look at our main file. And in here, we have our studio settings, right? And the height is set to 50 pixels. Not sure if you change it to 300. What, what exactly is going to happen. But, okay, well, nothing really did happen. It looks good.

13:14:57
So, you can set it to 300. And then if you click on this, you can see the preview. Okay. And if you're seeing a little square, what I did was inside here, which is inside the studio tray. I just remove this. And I put this behind a preview flag. Okay, so the same thing that was inside here. I removed the styling instead. And I said preview video, just like this. And I put it in here.

13:15:23
Okay. Now, when we change this by default, were not going to actually save it in the database. Thats because even though we are making the on change right here. So, for example, inside the widget media configuration, when were making the change right here, you see, we are actually firing this behind the scenes. Cuz, we are using the watch function. And with the help of watch, we are, you know, firing the mutate function, right?

13:15:52
So, the mutate is going to go behind the scenes, and its going to update the studio settings. And its going to make an A request to our SL studio endpoint. But of course, we dont have this. So, lets go ahead and set this up. So, open up your app, which is the web application version. And then you want to go into your API folder, you want to create another folder called studio.

13:16:14
And inside that, you want to create another studio called ID. Okay, this is the dynamic route, and that way, we can call this endpoint. And then inside this, you want to create a route Typescript. And go ahead and return a function like this. Okay. And its going to be a post function, because were making a change, right?

13:16:35
And down here, first, I'm going to get request and the PAMs. And from the PAMs, I'm going to get ID specifically. So, I'm just going to create those, the string right here, sorry, I'm going to destructure, and only get PAMs in here. Then, im going to print a message saying, consolelog called, and then down here, I'm going to say ID, PAMs. Okay. I'm going to destructure ID from here.

13:16:58
And then, I'm going to say body equal, await request. JSON. And in here were essentially passing the data through the body, right, so, thats, how were going to get all the data in here, then were going to say, await client, user update for this ID, were going to update the studio settings, and were going to update the screen, the mic and the preset, and then, well, return a 200 response.

13:17:25
And then in here, once this is successful, because were using the use mutation hook, we will essentially fire a toast message. So, thats it. And then here, you can return a 400 message if something went wrong. So now, when we change this, you're, going to see, were going to have a success message. Great, job. Okay, so now, the next problem that I need to solve here is the preview.

13:17:51
I want to essentially render our video or screen or whatever were recording on this page. So, let me go ahead and do this next. So, in order for us to render an element inside this, we could either make the call here to get all of our media resources.

13:18:09
And then we could send that into this ref, right, the video element itself, we could do that, or a much better way to do this would be to create something outside, maybe, like not a hook, exactly. But we could create a helper function that essentially takes in all of the values we need. And accordingly, we can pass in the ref as well. So it can mount the video to that element, right.

13:18:38
So, go down here, and you want to scroll down into your libs folder right here. I'm going to click on recorder. Typescript. And inside this file, I'm going to create a function here called select Sources. So, I'm going to say export cons select course, select sources equal to an arrow function. And this is going to be an async function thats going to take in the on sources.

13:19:03
Okay, S, Oou, I think I made some spell errors. Okay, like, this. And this is going to be an object. Its going to be of the three types. The first one is screen audio, ID, and the preset, which is HD or SD. Okay. And then inside this were also going to get the second parameter. And this one is the video element itself. And this is going to be react. Do. Uhre object.

13:19:29
And inside this, we can pass in HTML video elements. Okay, nice. And inside this, now were going to make sure if on sources exist. And these sources, which, sorry, on sources, what did I type here? This is. And All right. And the sources on sources screen exists. And the, on sources, audio exist, and also the on sources ID exist. So, if this is true, then were going to do the following.

13:20:09
So in here were going to say const constraints, I think I spelled this wrong. Okay, constraints. And this is going to be of type any for now. And this is going to be equal to an object. And this object in here is going to have the following properties. So were going to say audio is going to be false.

13:20:31
And then video here is going to be an object again, and were going to set a property here called mandatory. Okay, and this property is going to be another object. And please copy this and paste it or pause and type. So, you dont make any spelling errors. Okay, first were going to say, chrome media source is going to be of type desktop.

13:20:53
Then we need Chrome media source ID is going to be the sources screen, and then we also have to set some minimum and maximum width stuff. So I'm going to say min and max width, min, height, and max heights. And for that, I'm going to set on sources preset, if its HD, its going to be 1920. If not, itll be 1280. Okay. And, for height, its going to be 1080 or 720. Okay.

13:21:21
Next frame rate is another property that were going to create here. But for now, im not limiting the user on frame rate. I'm just doing 30 frames per second, but you could go ahead and, you know, do whatever settings you want. And down here, I'm going to say user ID is going to be equal to, or user ID, not use ID equal to, on sources ID. Okay. I'm just going to store it in here.

13:21:47
Why is this not setting? Okay. And, this user ID is going to be a variable that I'm going to store all the way up top right in here. Okay, awesome. So, now, that we have this user ID first, were going to create the stream. So, were going to say const stream. Equal. Await. Navigator. Do MedAD devices, getET user media, and were going to pass in all of our constraints.

13:22:15
Okay, so, ILL put some notes here for you as well. This is creating the stream. Okay, next were going to get the audio and the webcam stream. So, audio and webcam stream. So, down here were going to say, const audio stream is equal to a weight. Navigator. Do. Media devices. Getet user media were going to invoke this and were going to pass in some values. So, I'm going to pass in video.

13:22:47
And for audio, video, I'm going to set it to false. And for audio, im going to set it to, on sources, audio, if that exists, were going to return an object here. That is. Devices, device ID. And for that exact on sources, audio, and then were going to set or were going to set it to faults.

13:23:05
Okay, now, after this down here were going to say if the video element exist, and this video elements, because its a ref, we want to make sure current also exists. So were going to say, if video element and video element curren exist, then were going to say video element, current source subject is equal to the stream. Okay, and then down here were going to say, await video element. Do current playay. Okay, awesome.

13:23:44
Now, down here, go ahead and hit enter. And now we need to combine our streams, right. The tracks, the audio tracks, and the stream itself. So, this one, right, so, what were going to do here is were going to say, const combined stream equal to new media. So, new media stream were going to invoke this and were going to pass it an array. And this is going to use the spread operator for stream. Getet tracks.

13:24:12
Okay. And the second one is audio stream. Gett. Trcks. Okay, cool. Then, go ahead and hit enter. And now were going to create, now, we have something called media recorder. Right? So, down here were going to set our media recorder equal to a new media recorder, and were going to pass in our combined stream and were going to pass in an object with mim type set to video. Okay, its not giving it to me.

13:24:46
So, let me just go ahead and copy this. So I dont make any errors. So, its video, webm with a colon, semicolon here, and C, O, D, cs equal to VP9. Okay. And then im going to say, on data available. So were going to say, media recorder, do on DAT available equal to, on data available Where do I have this one?

13:25:14
Okay, so before we create the, on data available, we want to make sure that our socket is set up. Now, this is why I said the first video is so important. Okay, so, go back all the way to the starting and watch that video. If you skipped it, its still not late. Go, watch it. Okay. Only after you watch that will all of this make sense. So, first thing is, were going to need socket IO.

13:25:39
So, lets go ahead and import the socket IO package. And let me go ahead and grab that real quick. So, go ahead, say npm i, and im going to say socket IO client, like this, and then go ahead and install that. And I dont think we need anything else. All right, no big deal. If we need something, well, just go grab it. Okay.

13:26:00
And what were going to do now is, were going to scroll up top, right, up, top right here, here. And im going to say, export const on data available. So, data available, equal to an Aror function, and looks like theres another Eror here. Okay, let me just comment this out for now. So, this is an error function, and this Aror function is going to get a blob event.

13:26:24
Okay, so were going to say blob event, like this as a type, and inside here, were going to essentially emit this event with socketIO. So, lets scroll all the way up top, and I'm going to say import io from socket. IO, client. And I think we might need types, okay, we dont need types. All right, thats cool.

13:26:46
And down here, we can essentially emit that data, okay, so were going to say, socket, or first we need to create a client, we need to create a socket client, right? So lets go ahead and do that. So down here, im going to say const socket equal to io, and were going to import io, invoke. Io. And then in here, we have to pass in our URL. That is the vite, socket URL. Okay.

13:27:12
And our Vite socket URL is pretty much the same thing as this one, I believe. Let me just take a look. So inside our environment file, were going to create V socket URL and were going to set it to HTTP, localhost. SL5000. Okay, 5000 and slash. You can add this or remove it. Thats fine. But dont forget to put it in here. So, let me bring this in here. So, we can see this.

13:27:38
Now, on top were going to instantiate SocketIO by saying imports. Met environment, VIT, socket URL as string. Okay. Now that we have, this, lets scroll all the way down here. Okay. So, we need to create our media recorder. So, first thing I'm going to say is, lets uncomment this media recorder on DAT available. And let me make sure I didnt make any spelling errors.

13:28:07
Okay, this is equal to, on data available, what we created up here. Okay, and inside this, blob were essentially going to do the following. So, we need to first say socket emit and were going to send something called video chunks. Okay. Again, please do not make any spelling errors, even. Im going to copy this and paste it. Okay. And were going to get an arrow function as a call back.

13:28:39
So, were going to get this and actually, sorry, guys, not an arrow function. We have to pass it an object, okay, with the data. So, the chunk in here, so chunks is set to e. DAT. And were getting E from this blob. And then the file name is going to be set to the video transfer file name. Okay, essentially what we created up here, sorry, right here. Okay, cool. Now, lets go down.

13:29:07
And where were saying, on data available After this were going to say, media recorder, do onstop were going to say, equal to stop recording, and stop recording is going to be another helper function. So, scroll up, top right here, and you're going to say, const, stop recording equal to an arrow function. And in here were going to essentially use the hide plugin and were going to set it to false, right.

13:29:38
And we also need to emit a socket event. So, im going to say socket emit. And im going to pass in processID. And the object for this, or the data for this is going to be file name and were going to pass in the video transfer file name, and the user ID. Okay, user ID, like this. Awesome. Now, lets go back to our component. Also see an error here. Okay, its just some Typescript stuff.

13:30:13
So, I'm just going to do at TS ignore for now. And it looks like expect error. Instead of this. Well, do nothing. Okay. So, lets add that. Okay, this did not do anything as well, so we can just ignore it. Okay, it should shouldnt make a, shouldnt cause any problems for us. Now, we have to go ahead and invoke the select resource, right? We have to call this.

13:30:39
So, lets go ahead and at the on top here, right above this use effect, I'm going to create another use effect. So, lets create our callback function. And this is going to be a dependency array with, on sources passed into it, and in here were going to say, if, on sources exist, and on sources, screen exist, then, were going to invoke the select sources and pass in on sources as well as video elements. Okay, nice.

13:31:11
Now, we also need to return a cleanup function. So, I'm going to say return. And inside this, I'm going to say select sources, and I'm going to invoke it. And I'm going to pass in the on sources as well. And the video elements too. Okay, and you can put this in here if you see an error. Okay, nice. Now, let lets scroll down or just restart the server.

13:31:38
And when you click on this button, its going to ask you for access. So, im going to say allow. And there we go. Now, we can see our screen. How awesome is this. And you can change to whatever screen you want. So, if I change to screen number one, as you can see, I dont think you can.

13:31:55
Well, you can see its, the, you can probably see the cursor right, its moving in there, so it is a screen recording itself. And you can also change this to screen two. So, we can record this screen. And again, you can see the cursor on this screen as well. Okay, awesome, guys. Looks amazing. Now, another thing is inside our main typescript. If you scroll down, you're, going to find something called resize window.

13:32:20
Okay, so essentially, when this is being fired, we want to set the studio size to the following. So lets go back, and also fire this event. Okay, and for that, were going to need the, A helper called resize window. So, im going to create a use effect. And inside the use effect, im going to pass in preview, like this.

13:32:42
And in here, im going to say, if, or actually, we dont need to check, I'm, just going to create the resize window helper and pass in preview for now. So lets copy this. And im going to go into my UOLS file right here. And at the bottom, im going to essentially say, export, const resize window equal to an equal to an Aror function, and were going to have a Boolean here called shrink.

13:33:10
And inside this, were going to send the event with the IPC renderer. So were going to say, IPC renderer, do send, resize, resize studio, and were going to pass in the Boolean. Okay, now lets go back in here and lets import our resize window helper. And we also need to, well, since its an event handler, or I mean, its an event emiter, I think we all, yeah, we also have to return this, right.

13:33:36
So, im going to say return and invoke, resize window and pass in the preview. So, now that I look at this, you may not actually need this, because the reason why I needed this in the first place is, and again, guys, the, the whole confusion is happening because of different devices, right? First coded this in Windows. So, were going to have that discrepancy.

13:34:00
So, if you can see here, if I click on this, essentially, what were doing is were firing the set preview, and thats going to invoke our resize window, and essentially were accommodating for the square. Thats basically whats happening. So, technically speaking, you dont even need this, right? And I'm, just going to select something in here for now. So, it brings this up.

13:34:22
And the reason is because we can essentially click on the, we can click on this. Oh, I think I accidentally moved. Okay, so, you can click on this, and you can drag it, or you can set the height or whatever you need, right? Oh, also, we need to refresh everything. So, now you see, it does not remove it. So, completely up to you. Its just personal preference. I think this looks great.

13:34:48
So, im going to keep it like this. Now, the other component, or the other file that we need to load is the webcam, right? So, lets go ahead and try to set that up as well. So, first thing is, were going to go into our webcam main. TSX, and click on this app right here, here. And now, we need to build the component itself, the webcam itself inside this. So, remove whatever is in here.

13:35:13
And let me increase the screen size. So, you guys can see clearly, and im going to call this webcam. Okay, so lets copy this, open up our folder structure. And inside global components, I'm going to create another folder, call it webcam. And then index. TsX file. Tsx file. And inside this, im going to do the following. So the first thing is, I dont need any props. So im going to remove this.

13:35:39
And in here, I'm going to say const cam element equal to use ref, not use reducer, its use ref. Like this, and were going to invoke that and were going to pass a null. And this is going to need a type, right? So, the type is HTML video element, or its going to be null.

13:36:02
So, essentially what were doing, guys is, were just going to r something exactly like this, but were just its not like were individually recording that element. And then streaming, whatever is coming through the, through the webcam, but were just placing it like an overlay. Okay, but this will be hidden, I believe. And this one will not be hidden, right?

13:36:26
So, essentially all were doing is were placing the camera and were just kind of making it an overlay. All right, so next thing is in here, I'm going to say const, or lets just go down here first and lets return the video element. Right? So, im going to say video like this. And inside this, I'm going to pass in my ref. So, the ref is equal to cam elements. And I also need a class name.

13:36:51
So my class name is going to say height, screen, draggable, like this. Okay. Were going to say object cover, rounded, large aspect, video, border 2 relative and border white. And now, if I put something in here, you may not be able to see this. Let me see if I can find this element. Okay, so I need to first import this component, right?

13:37:17
So once I imported it, now, I can see it, but you're not able to. Let me go ahead and show you. All right, there we go. Looks awesome, right? So, its going to show up kind of like in the bottom left corner, something like this. Okay. All right. Now, the next thing you're going to do is go into your main Typescript file.

13:37:34
And if you scroll up top right here, essentially, we say window set visibility on all workspaces And also, we put it on full screen devices. We need to do the same thing for our floating device. Okay, floating webcam. So you're going to say floating webcam, floating webcam, like this, copy this, and do the same thing for this as well. Okay. Now, im going to give it a second to spin up.

13:38:00
And ILL show you what it does as well. So, as you can see, when all our resources show up, now, we have this circle, right? And all we have to do is do exactly what we did with this part, which is fill it with the video. Thats pretty much it. Okay, so, let me go ahead and do that as well.

13:38:17
So, inside this webcam component, essentially, when it spins up, we need to have, we need to have a use effect that will stream our web camera into that element. Right, so, first thing were going to do is, were going to create a use effect like this, and were going to give it a empty dependency array.

13:38:36
And when it first streams, when it first gets set up, we have to, we have to call a function called Stream Webcam. So, im going to go ahead and call this. And this is, of course, the helper function, thats going to do all of this. So, right here, for now, I'm going to say, const stream webcam equal to an arrow function. And this is going to be an async function as well.

13:38:58
And in here, I'm going to say, const stream equal. Await. Navigator dot media devices, getet user media, and I want to invoke it. And I'm going to pass in some information. Im going to pass in the video, set it to true, and the audio itself. Okay, so its already calling this, so, I'm just going to hit allow. Okay. And I also want to set the audio and set it to true as well.

13:39:27
So, it might ask for that too. Okay, its not asking good to go. And down here, im going to say, if we have cam, if we have the cam element, right, so theres something inside cam element current, then were going to say, cam element current source object equal to the stream, and then were going to await cam element current playay. Okay, very similar to what we did for the other.

13:39:57
For the stream for streaming, the video cam as well. And there you go, guys, thats me. Hows it going? So, as you can see, the camera is also set up. And if you got that prompt, just make sure to click allow. Okay, if that goes away, then make sure you go into, you want to go into your settings and you want to change it from there. Okay, so im going to move this now.

13:40:20
All right, awesome. Our application is working amazingly well. Now, the next thing we need to test, which we havent tested yet, is our socket and to see whether its emiting all of these values. Now, I know, for fact, that its going to, because socket does work, okay, socket will do what its intended to do, which is it will just simply emit this event.

13:40:43
But I want to make sure that my, on data available is being invoked based on the interval that we gave it. Okay, that is every second. So, all im going to do is im going to say, alert running in here. And im also going to say npM runev. And if everything is working, and when I click the record button, I should see the, I should essentially see an alert message and the timer.

13:41:09
So, im going to bring these two up here. And im also going to select a screen, so I can see a screen right here. Okay, awesome. And now, im going to click on record. All right, we see our timer. Awesome. And we also see the alert message showing up every single second. Great job, guys. Now, go ahead, quickly, open your, open up your terminal, and just quit the terminal.

13:41:34
So, it doesnt, you know, that keeps spamming you. But thats it. Thats all we needed to do. Now, all we need to do now is send these chunks to that endpoints, and were already doing that, right, were emiting this to this specific endpoint.

13:41:49
So, once we have our express server, thats listening for these events that are going to come in, were going to take these chunks and then do whatever we need to do on the express server, and then, well, store it as a file. And then, well, upload it to our S3 buckets. Okay, so many, cool things. You're learning in this one single video. So, ID, really, really appreciate it.

13:42:13
If you supported us by smashing that subscribe button. Okay. All right, lets move on now. All right. So, go ahead and create a folder wherever you like. I'm just going to put it in the same place where I have all of the projects related to this opal project. And im going to call this one Express. So, first, im going to say Opal D web prodigies, das Express.

13:42:37
Okay, and next thing is, I'm going to go in here and open a new window. Okay, awesome. And im going to bring this window right here. And im going to drag this folder and put it inside this file. Okay, next, you're going to open up your terminal and you're going to say, npm in it. And I think we just need this. This should be fine.

13:43:01
And for the package name, you can pretty much set whatever you want. I'm just going to go ahead and hit enter for version, its going to be one for this description. You can put whatever you want, but I'm, just going to go ahead and hit enter for the entry point. Im going to change this, if I can in here. Okay, its not letting me do anything.

13:43:20
So, I'm just going to hit enter for the test command. Hit enter, get repository. Just hit enter for everything. Okay, awesome. And now, you should see a Packagejson inside this. And you see its actually send the IndexJS as the root file, but were going to be using a serverJS file. Okay, it doesnt really matter. You can use IndexJS if you want as well, but im going to call this serverJS. Okay, awesome.

13:43:49
And in here, we need, were going to need to also install a couple packages. So just go ahead and follow with me. So, im going to say N npMI. The first one is Axios. Then were going to need cores. Then then env. Express. We need fix das webm duration, put space, then you're going to need, honed, then you're going to need Nodemon, and open AI. And then we need socket. I think I made an error here.

13:44:25
Its open AI. And then you're going to put space, say socketIO. And then we need ZOD. Okay. All right. And were also going to need, oh, we also need AWS stuff. So were going to say, AWSSDK, then you're going to say, at AWSSDK, client. DS3, and you're going to put space and AWSSDK sl li storage. Okay. And go ahead and hit enter. And thats going to install a bunch of stuff for us.

13:45:06
And lets just give that a second. Okay, so I made an error here, guys, this is not two dashes, its just one dash. So, remove this right here and hit enter one once more. And that should do the job. All right.

13:45:21
So, before we begin, I want to just give you a quick overview of the libraries that were using in our express application, because I know there were a ton, and most of you guys already know what this stuff is. But for those of you who dont, who, you know, have absolutely no idea. ILL try my best to give you a quick glimpse.

13:45:40
Okay, so first, the first three packages, which is the AWS client S3, and the AWS SDK, the Lib storage. These are tools to help us store and manage files on Amazon S3 buckets. Okay, so its basically like a cloud storage service. And if you went to, if you watch the first part of this course, which is the first video, it explains every single thing, right?

13:46:07
But, this is basically where we will keep all the videos for our application. And, well, store it inside this S3 bucket. Okay, next, the AWS SDK is needed in this application because its, its slightly, an older tool, actually, but we need this to essentially connect our app to the different services that AWS is providing. So for S3 were going to need this SDK to pretty much connect to that bucket.

13:46:35
Okay, then Axios, you guys already know. So im not going to explain. Axios is just to make API requests. Now, what is cores here? So, in short, cores is, well, first, cores stands for cross origin resource sharing. Okay. And what this means is when you are sending a request from two different domains, its going to get blocked because its like a security principle. Okay.

13:46:58
And we want this, we want this Coors library to essentially make sure that our applications can safely connect to different domains or services without running into this specific security error. Okay, its, in my opinion, its very annoying, but its super, super helpful. Okay, you need this, you need this to secure your app.

13:47:18
And also make sure that it also helps you not get, you know, a bunch of calls from someone thats not authorized to call your application. Thats why we need course. Next environment. So, this helps us essentially keep sensitive information, right? So, passwords and keys and stuff like that. And the env is essentially going to help us locate a environment file, and pretty much do whatever we need with them. Next, express.

13:47:43
So, this is what we use to build our backend server. Okay, it handles things like routing, or deciding like what happens to what happens when users, you know, hit a points and end point, right? So, EXPRESS is also kind of like U, its basically an API for your server. Think about it that way. Then what is fix Webm duration.

13:48:10
So this is a small tool, its not a big package, but its a small tool that makes sure that the video files, the video files in the webm format, have the current, have the correct length. Okay. So that way, the video doesnt cut off too soon or too long, or, you know, too, too late. And that way, we get the exact number. Thats the only reason why we, we need this.

13:48:35
Okay, now, hound or hound, how. However you want to call it, this essentially helps our app, listen and interact with audio or speech. Okay. And its, like, think about it, when, when you want to control something using voice commands, youd probably want to use this, okay. And its going to come in handy in our application. Then were going to need Nodon.

13:48:58
Nodon is a tool that pretty much starts a server, right It starts our express server, and that way we can listen for, you know, end, listen to for calls that come to our endpoints. Open AI. You guys know Socket IO, you guys know, and ZOD. I'm sure, you know as well, right?

13:49:15
If you dont know what open AI is, I am, sorry, you live under a rock, but essentially open AI allows us to connect to AI services. Okay, and AI models for generating text descriptions, all that kind of stuff. Okay, hopefully that description really helped. Now, in the script section, we need to use no, to essentially run our application.

13:49:36
So right here, go ahead and change this to first were going to create a script here called dev. Okay, so you're, going to say dev, and this one is going to say Nodemon, serverJS, and were going to have one more script thats going to essentially run node serverJS. And this one is called start. Okay, so, lets go up here and put a comma after this. And you dont need a comma after this.

13:50:01
Okay, so, make sure you add that. And now we can go into our server. Js, and pretty much do whatever we need to do. Now, before we do that, I also want to create a environment file. Okay, so you're, going to say, env, and inside this, were going to do the following. So, first, I'm going to need the next API host.

13:50:18
And this is going to be local host 3000 API, and then were also going to need the electron host. Okay, so this is the local host. 5173. Okay. This is where our app is running. Our Electron app specifically lets go into our serverJS file. And the first thing is, were going to need to spin up our server. So, I'm going to say cons server equal to HTDP. Doc. Creat server.

13:50:44
And I'm going to need to pass in an app. And since were using Express here, we can instantiate an express app by saying const app equal express. Okay, now that we have this next, we need to wire up cores. So, I'm going to say appuse cores And im going to invoke this. And now, of course, we need to import C. So, were going to say cores, const cores equal require cores just like this. Okay.

13:51:10
File is in commonjs. Yes. I know it may be converted. Okay, I know that as well. We dont need to do that. Its totally fine. So, now that we have cores, pretty much connected with our app, we can go ahead and also grab HTTP. Okay. So, HTTP is going to help us create the server itself. So, I'm going to go in here and say HTTP equal require http.

13:51:33
So, now, we have pretty much everything that we need. So, you can go down to the bottom and you can say server, listen, you're going to invoke this. And you're going to pass in 5000. And after this, you want to pass in a callback function. And in here, I'm going to say Consolelog. And I'm going to pass in a green icon. So, I know that everything is good. Let me say green, like this, green circle.

13:52:00
Okay. And I'm just going to say, listening to port 5000. Okay, awesome. Now, we can go ahead and say npm run. Start or npm runev. And that should spin up our Nodemon server. Okay, so, it looks like something went wrong with express. Lets just take a quick look. Oh, all right. Turns out we. I did not even import Express in the first place. So, on top here were going to import Express as well.

13:52:27
And now Nodemon is going to automatically spin this up. So, let me go ahead and see what our next error is. Okay, so, this is already in use. So, let me quit the server. Okay, so I think this is because im unac. And if you have airplay for some reason 5000 is taken. Now, this is what Stack Overflow says, even though I think 5000 is not taken.

13:52:51
But if it is, all you have to do is change the port number. So, I said 50001. And now, you see im listening on 50001. And because we made this change, we want to go into our Electron application. And we also want to change it in here. Okay, so, now that is done, our application is essentially listening. Nice. So, now lets go ahead and import our socket. So, im going to say server equal requir SocketIO.

13:53:18
And let me also increase the size, so you guys can see clearly, okay, and let me shrink this a little bit more. Nice. So now we have the server, and we can create that instance of SocketIO. So, here, after the appuse, im going to essentially say const. Io equal to new server, were going to invoke this and were going to pass in our server that we just created, and were going to pass in some properties.

13:53:51
Some options. The first one is cores. So, for cores, were going to set the following. So, origin is going to be set to process environment, electron host. Okay. And just to make sure we have electron host in here. Awesome. And now that we have this, the next one is the methods. So, for methods were going to set, get and post, because thats all we need for now, right?

13:54:19
So, now, essentially, socket IO is creating, where, I mean, were creating an instance in here. So we can use IO inside this application, and listen for events. So, first event we want to listen to is on a connection. So, im going to say on, and its, for a connection specifically, and for this connection, were going to get a callback function. And this callback function is going to give us access to the socket itself.

13:54:46
Now, once this is connected, I'm, just going to show a message saying, consolelog. Okay, I'm going to copy this little green icon, and im going to say, socket is connected. Okay. So now lets go ahead and try to connect socket with our application. All right, guys. So the reason why were not able to connect, is because we did not invoke env. So, go ahead and say, env, like this. And you want to say require env.

13:55:18
And then you want to configure it by saying configure, okay. And once this is done, you also want to go into your environment variables. And you want to remove this backslash, the trailing backslash, okay. And then make sure this is running. So, go back and save it once more. So, it kind of like refreshes And then you want to go into your application, your electron application, and you want to say npm run, dev.

13:55:48
Okay, and there you go, our socket is connected. So, the problem here was both the env, and our environment variable as well. Okay. So, now there, there are going to be different events that we need to listen to from socket io, right? The first one being the video chunks. So I'm first going to say, socket, do the socket from here, right? Socket, doon were going to invoke this and were going to listen to video chunks.

13:56:18
And this is going to be an arrow function, because were going to get a callback function that it fires. And in here, I'm going to pass in, I'm going to make this an async function, and im going to call this right here, I'm going to say, consolelog. And in here, im going to say video chunk is sent. Okay.

13:56:39
And this is also going to give us some data, so I can pretty much print the data if I want as well. Sorry, this is data not date. Okay, the other event we are going to need to listen to is process video, right? So, lets go ahead and listen to that event. So, process video. And finally, disconnect. So, lets go ahead and say disconnect. All right.

13:57:02
And for disconnect, I'm just going to say, lets remove this and say socket ID is going to be socket ID. Okay. ID, like this. And you can pretty, pretty much say is disconnected. Okay. And for this one, well, say processing video. Okay, cool. Now, lets go into our application. And first, I want to make sure the soft socket is connected. Okay. So, if I try to record, there we go.

13:57:39
So, every second I'm getting sent these chunks, guys. This is the most beautiful site I have ever seen in my entire life. Take a look at that. So, all our chunks and the buffer data is being sent in real time. So, as the user is essentially recording, were getting all the, the buffer data and its being sent into our express server. And all we have to do is pretty much convert this in store it.

13:58:04
Okay, as a file. So, im going to stop this. So, it doesnt burn my computer. Okay. And the reason is, because I have some other video processing tools that are running in the back end. So, now that we have this, we know that this is working, right? And when I clicked on, stop, I also want to make sure that the video is, HM were supposed to get processing video. We did not get that event.

13:58:30
If I'm, if im not wrong, let me try to do this once more. So, im going to record, and let me stop. Okay, so processing video is sent first, and then, I think, okay, and then, I think, were sent the final chunk. This one. So, I dont, think, were going to need to care too much about it. And if we do, of course, well, come back to it.

13:58:53
Okay, so now lets go ahead and first handle the CH, the video chunks being sent. Okay, so in here, first thing is, were going to need to create a wr stream. So, I'm going to say, const, right, stream is equal to FS, and FS is file storage, right? File system for that were going to need to go all the way up top and require or import our file, storage.

13:59:17
And down here were going to say, Fs. Create wr stream, and were going to invoke this. And now, essentially, we have to pass in all of the data, right? But before that, I want to create an array here, that can keep record of all of our chunks. I'm going to say, const recorded chunks equal to an empty array. And now, I'm just going to append all of the chunks I get to that.

13:59:47
Okay, so first, lets also finish this. So, first thing is, I'm going to create a folder here, or a file here, like this, called tempore upload. And I'm going to put a backs slash. And I'm going to say plus data, or actually lets remove this data file name. Okay, and this data is coming from here. So, file name, like this. Okay. And once I have this, I want to push these chunks into this array.

14:00:16
So, im going to say, recorded chunks. Push data chunks. Okay, next were going to need to create a blob So, lets go ahead and say video blob equal to new blob and were going to pass in the recorded chunks and were going to say type video webm, and were going to pass in the code, CS of VP9. Okay, and after this were need, were going to need to create the buffer, right, so, what were going to do now is were going to say const buffer equal to buffer from await video blob and were going to get the, were going to get the array buffer.

14:00:58
Okay. And next thing is down here, were going to create a read stream. And from that were going to read this buffer. Info. So you're going to say const read stream. Okay, equal to readable. Is it giving it to me? Okay, its not giving it. Okay, so, I need to get readable from the stream package. So, im going to go up top, and I'm going to say, readable equal. Require stream like this. Okay.

14:01:26
Then I'm going to scroll down. And, let me also shrink this a little bit. So you guys can see, okay, and inside this were essentially creating the readable stream. So, were going to say, readable from, were going to pass in our buffer data. And now, after this, we have to pipe our readable stream to the right stream. Right, so, im going to say, readable stream pipe.

14:01:47
And in here, I'm going to essentially pass the right stream. And after that, I'm going to haveon. And when this is done, so finish like this. When its completed, it gives us access to a C call back function. That will, it will invoke. So, I can pass in the consolelog in here. Okay. And ILL take the same thing from here. And ILL, just put this in here, saying chunk saved. Okay.

14:02:16
And now that we know the data comes back, I'm also going to remove this. So its a little clearer, and we can understand whats going on. Okay, nice. Awesome. Now, im going to remove this one as well. And for this, its fine, it can stay. But thats pretty much it. So lets go ahead and give, give it a shot and lets see what happens. So, im recording.

14:02:37
Now, as you can see, it says the app crashed, waiting for a file changes before it starts. So, its saying, theres no such file or directory called temp upload. Okay. And something is undefined, which is the file name itself. Okay, so, it looks like when I just console logged the messager data, it looks like file name was misspelled. Okay, so, this is why I said, dont, make any spelling errors like me. Okay.

14:03:05
So, I'm going to go in here, and I'm going to go into recorder. Typescript, and I'm going to change this to file name. Okay. Now socket is also connected. And let me try. I think I also might need to create the folder, but im not sure if it does it on its own. Let me just give it a shot. Okay, so, we need to create that.

14:03:26
Okay, so go down here and create a folder and were going to call this folder video. Sorry, were going to call it temp. Un underscore. Upload. And thats pretty much it. Okay, and lets go ahead and try to record. Now, also, we need to save our application. So let me go ahead and save this. And there we go. So, it saved some files. It looks like I did it twice.

14:03:52
So, it kind of created two different files. So, ill, delete this, and ill delete this one as well. And now lets go ahead and start from the top. So, im going to save this. So, it starts all over all over again. All right, socket is connected, and it looked like it created two connections. And the reason is because I went in here and I used the hot reload, right? So, I'm going to quit this app.

14:04:13
I'm going to redo my Nodemon. Okay. And now im going to open up the app once more. All right socket is connected. That screamed in my ears. Oh my God. That gave me a heart attack. Okay. And now im going to try to record, okay, processing the video. Chunk saved. Awesome. Guys. Take a look at this. How amazing is this to you?

14:04:35
So, now, when I stop this, boom, done, the chunk is saved, and everything is pushed into this file right here. We did every single thing from scratch. This is why this application is going to stand out on, you know, on your resume, or even, you know, on Youtube, no, not a single person on Youtube is showing you how to do this. Theyre probably using something like a streaming platform.

14:05:02
And, you know, theyre, theyre essentially using something like OBS. And theyre just showing you how to stream it from them from that, right? But were showing you how to do it from scratch. So, if you like this video, please do give us a thumbs up and subscribe. That would mean the world to our team. Okay. All right. So, now, once this is done, the next step is processing, right?

14:05:27
So, lets go ahead and do that part. So when SocketIO gets this event fired, which is the process video in here, essentially, were going to do a bunch of things, for example, were going to need to also read the file, and were going to need to, of course, upload it to our database, remember all the steps, right? And also, AWS related stuff. So, for now, lets get the code up and running.

14:05:55
And then, well, go get all the variables that we need, right? Because we have to go into AWS, we have to get the bucket name, the region, some access, credentials, and all that kind of stuff. So, lets go ahead and do that first. So, first thing im going to do is I'm going to set recorded chunks to an empty array. Okay, then I'm going to read the file from F from file storage.

14:06:17
So, I'm going to say Fs. Readfile. And I'm going to invoke this. I'm going to say temp. Tem, upload, going to put a backs slash, and then I'm going to say, plus, data file name. And this is going to give us a callback function. So, im going to make this an async function like this. And this is going to give us any error or the file itself.

14:06:46
And inside this, first thing im going to do is im going to going to say const processing like this is equal to a weight axios, and were going to need to import Axio. If you go up top, you should see Axos. Where was that? Let me do it from scratch, actually. So, im going to say const axios equal required. Axios. Okay. And now lets go down. And after this were going to say axios, dopost. Dopost.

14:07:19
HM. Something seems to be wrong, guys. Just give me a second. Okay, I think everything is correct. Im not sure whats going on, but I thought it would give me some type intelligence, but I guess were not getting anything in here. So, its fine. No problem. Now, were going to say post and were going to put the endpoint. So, were going to say dollar sign and make sure you have the back ticks process. Env.

14:07:42
Next AIOR, host. And inside our environment file, we have the next API host variable in here. Okay, so now, inside this were going to say recording. Okay, and then slash dollar sign, like this data user ID, and then slash processing. Okay, cool. Awesome. Next, after this were going to say, if were processing the data, so this has to be inside this guys, or maybe, well, yeah, it has to be inside it.

14:08:20
So, lets move this inside this. So, if processing is equal to, or if processing, DAT status is not equal to 200, then we want to return consolelog. And I'm just going to put an emoji in here. Maybe a red color emoji. And ill say error. Something went wrong with processing with creating the processing file. Okay. And then after this down here, I'm going to hit enter. And im going to say const key equal data file name.

14:09:05
Okay. And this is all a lowercase. And next, we need the bucket. So, I'm going to say const bucket equal process, env bucket name. And this is going to be inside our environment variable. But, because we dont have it for now, its totally fine. I'm just going to set it and ILL, come back to it when I when I get those keys. Okay.

14:09:28
And after this, im going to say const content type equal to video webm. Okay. And then I'm going to get a command here. So, im going to say const command. And this is equal to something called put object command, which comes from S, SW, from our AWS SDK. Okay. So lets go ahead and im going to go up top and import all the AWS related stuff. So, I need the S3 client and put object command.

14:10:00
Okay. So, im going to grab this. And here, first of all, I made a spelling error. So, let me fix that spelling error. I'm going to say new. Put object command. I'm going to invoke it. And inside this, I'm going to pass in the key. I need to pass in the bucket. And we can also quit this. We no longer need the terminal to run and, or the server to run.

14:10:23
And then I'm going to say content type, like this. And then I'm going to say body. And I'm going to pass in the file. Okay. All right. Now, after this down here, I'm going to say const file status equal to await S3. Send. Now, for S3, we also need to create an instance. So, lets go ahead and do that. So, you want to scroll up here, maybe somewhere around here. This should be good.

14:10:52
So, were going to say const s3, equal, new S3, client s3 client, were going to invoke it. And inside this were going to need to pass in some credentials. So, I'm going to say credentials, which is an object. The access key ID is going to be process, environment, access, key ID. And I'm going to go into my environment variable. And im going to create this one right here.

14:11:19
And then after this, im going to need the secret access key, which is going to be process. Env. Secretor key, and lets go ahead and also copy this one. And im going to paste it inside my environment variables. I cant type today, guys. Todays a really bad day. Todays, an amazing day. Sorry, never say that. Okay, so, and after this, I also need to pass in the region. So, im going to say, region is process.

14:11:47
I have to put a comma here first. So, region is process environment, and were going to say bucket region. Okay. And were going to go ahead and put that variable in here as well. Okay, now, after this, lets scroll down. Now, now, we can invoke this S3 bucket, and we can upload our data. We can send our data. So, im going to say, S3, send I'm going to invoke it and pass in the command.

14:12:14
Okay, nice. Now, after this down here, were also going to need all of our AI related stuff, right? So were going to need to transcribe, and pretty much, whatever, whatever we need to do to give the user that AI related titles, and, you know, description, all that kind of stuff. So, for this, we will be using open AI And whisper ai. Whisper.

14:12:37
AI is going to help us transcribe our video and open AI is going to help us pretty much get a summary of a summary of, you know, the title and the transcript itself. So, first thing were going to do, and of course, we need to create the instance and all that stuff, but lets just get the setup, right.

14:12:56
So, im going to say, if file status, so if everything is good to go, and in here were need going to need to get metadata and were going to say, HDP status, code is equal to 200. Then were going to consolelog, and I'm going to essentially copy this right here, paste it, remove this, I'm going to say, video uploaded to AWS. Okay, so this means were, were good to go, everything is uploaded successfully. Okay.

14:13:29
And then after that lets go ahead and start this process. So, were going to say, processing data, plan. If this is equal to pro plan, then were going to say file, storage. Start. So, Fs. Start, like this, its giving me, stat, oh, it is. Stat, guys, not start. And in here were going to pass in the location. So, tempore, upload, and were going to put a backs slash like this plus data file name.

14:14:01
And this is going to, to give us again, you guys know, its going to give us an arrow function, right, a call back function. So, were going to pass it an arrow function like this. And this is going to be an async function. And inside here were going to check to make sure theres no error. So, if theres no error, okay, and this error comes from here. So error, and stat this one.

14:14:26
Okay, so, if theres no error, only, then are we going to pretty much start the whisper AI transcription? So, the most important part here, and this is, this might be a restriction, well, its not really a restriction, but you just have to know how to send it for now, were only going to be doing 25 megabytes. Okay, so this is a restriction right now.

14:14:49
And I think this is just whisper AIs restriction, you cant really do anything about it. Okay, so, what were going to do down here is first were going to do that. And, and you need to do this in order to avoid any errors, right. So, so well, make sure its less than 25 Mb. And then, well, check for the file size before transcribing.

14:15:08
So were going to say, if stat size is greater or less than 251,2.3,4.5,6. Okay. So, make sure you type this correctly. So, there should be six zeros. Okay, so, if its less than this only, then, are we going to do the following. So, first were going to say const transcription equal to a wait, and now were going to need the open AI related stuff. So, lets go ahead and grab all of that. All right, guys.

14:15:41
So this is how we can get our open AI keys. So, one thing to keep in mind is, from now, im no longer going to open my environment file, okay, because there are some important keys in there. And I want you to remember that this is private. So, do not share these keys with anyone. Okay.

14:16:00
So, if I tell you to P, paste the values inside your environment file, you have to understand, you have to just read the code and see the environment key, and then put that key inside the environment file. If you dont have it. Or if you do have it, just learn how to populate it. Okay, thats pretty much it. So, first thing is you're, going to go ahead and look for open AI.

14:16:22
And you're, going to click on login here. This is the fastest way. And once you're done with that, its going to take you to a login page, go ahead and login to the create an account, then you want to click on API right here. And thats going to take you to your dashboard. Now, you might have a different dashboard thats completely fine. Things change every single day. Okay.

14:16:46
The most important part in here is you need an API key. So, first thing is click on dashboard, right here, this one. And then in your left side menu, you should see API keys in here. Okay, click on this, and then click on, create new key.

14:17:03
Then its going to give you an option to give a name for the key, put the name for the key, and then just hit, enter, its going to show a popup. Okay, and I dont have that, of course, but its going to show you a popup. And you want to make sure that you copy that and instantly paste it in your environment file.

14:17:23
Okay, because if you lose that key, its gone, its never going to come again. So youll have to delete it. If something happens, you can always go delete that API key, key and bring up, create a new one. Okay, but like I said, just copy that key and paste it in your environment file. All right. Then the next thing is, you want to go ahead and put in your credit card.

14:17:46
So, the first thing I would suggest is you want to click on, let me see, okay, click on settings here. And once you click on settings, you should find limits. So, click on limits. And then scroll down. And you see something called usage limits, right? You want to add $5 as the monthly budget, and $5 here as the email notification threshold. If your organization exceeds this threshold, you will essentially be, you will get an email.

14:18:17
And that way, theyll tell you, hey, you crossed $5, right? But we already set this $5 budget in here. So, any API requests that go higher than this will not be considered. Now, you need to put a minimum of $5. I think this is how it works, works. So, just put five here and put five right in here as well. Okay, awesome. Now, dont be afraid to just invest five bucks on yourself.

14:18:40
Trust me, its going to be worth its going to be worth the $5. Okay, you're going to learn so much more. And your $5 are going to do absolutely nothing in your bank account. All right, so get your credit card and put it in here. Much more than just having five bucks and spending it on stupid Mcdonalds or something. Okay, so put five here and five here. Dont forget this step.

14:19:01
Okay, then you're going to click on billing, of course, and then go in here and add a payment method. Okay, put your card, put your credit card. And once you're done, you should get a confirmation. Everything should be good to go.

14:19:13
And now that you have your API key, you can go back to the code base, go to environment, of course, im not stupid to open it, but go into your environment file, and paste the API key. And you're, going to call the variable. If you dont have it, you want to call it open AI key. Okay, its this one right here. So, open AI key.

14:19:33
And you want to set it to that value that you just copy pasted. Okay, thats pretty much it. So, now that we have our open AI key, we can go ahead and start our transcription process. So, in here, we going to uncomment this and were going to say, await. And now, we need to create the open AI object, right, instance. So, you want to scroll up top all the way here, and below the env config.

14:19:58
And you probably want to move this to the top, think thats better. So, let me move this here, and move this here as well. And, the app can be here. This is fine. Okay. And, actually, the app should be all the way up top. This is usually how I do it, and everything else should be. Okay. So, now, first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to say open AI equal to new.

14:20:22
And now, we need to get the open AI API, right? We just imported that library. So were going to go up here and were going to say, open AI like this. And let me make sure I actually in install this. So, we have open AI. Okay, awesome. So, import that from your import it, like this. Okay. And you want to say open AI require open AI. Then down here were going to invoke this.

14:20:47
And inside this, were going to pass in an object. And we have to pass in our API key. Okay. And our API key is going to be that new value, which is process, environment. Openen key. Okay. Dont forget, if you make a spelling error, I cannot save you. Okay, of course, you can show up in the discord and the chat bot should help you get everything up and running.

14:21:10
If you find any errors, but just try to try to not make any spellings please. Okay, dont be like me. Now, im going to copy this, open AI, and I'm going to go all the way to the bottom here. And now we can make this request. So, the first thing im going to say is await open AI. Audio like this. Do transcription transcriptions. Do creat. And im going to invoke this.

14:21:35
And inside this, im going to pass in the file. Okay, why is this not entering? Okay, I to pass in a file, actually. But let me just make sure everything is good to go before we do that. So, we have open AI were importing it. Okay, this should be good, usually, it should give you some sort of type intence, but if its not that, thats totally fine. But lets go back down.

14:22:01
So, were going to say create. And in here, I'm going to create the read stream. Okay, so, I'm going to say file is Fs. Create. Readstream. I'm going to use the backt and say temp. Upload dollar sign, data, fil name. And down here, I have to say the model that im using. Okay. And the model here is whisper. AI1. Okay, actually its whisper one. So, Wh, H, I, s, P E R, one.

14:22:29
This is what they have You can take a look at their API and change it. If it ever changes in the future, or you want to use something even more powerful. Okay. And then I'm going to say, response format is going to be text. Now, after this down here, inside this, if condition itself, right, were doing it inside this orange bracket, were going to say the following.

14:22:52
So first thing is, were going to say, if transcription, so if transcription exist, everything is good to go, then were going to do this. So were going to say const completion equal to await open AI. Open AI. Do chat, do completions, do create, and im going to invoke this. And inside this, I'm going to pass in GPT. Okay, and the model were using, is GPT 35 turbo. So, I'm going to say, model GPT 35, turbo.

14:23:28
And the response type response format is going to be J on object. And then were going to need a message, right? So, we have to send this into our GPT engine. And its kind of like a prompt, right? So, were going to tell it that you need to generate a title and a nice description using, you know, the speech to text, all that kind of stuff. So, right here, I'm going to say message messages.

14:23:55
Actually, let me copy this. So, I dont make any errors here. So, I'm going to say messages and its an array. And its going to take in an object. And in here, I'm going to say, roll system, like this, what seems to be the issue here? Okay, this is any type thats fine. So, system.

14:24:13
And here, you are going to generate a title and a nice description using the speech to text transcription provided, and the transcription is this. So, inside this dollar sign and curly bracket transcription, and then return it in JSON format as title, like this. Okay, the title you gave, and summary, the summary you gave. Okay, thats it Next were going to hit enter.

14:24:39
So inside this, if condition itself, so were going to hit enter after this, and were going to say const title and summary. So, title and summary generated right here. And im going to say this is equal to await Axios, dopost request. And inside this, im going to need to pass in our API endpoint. So, im going to say dollar sign proc process. Env. Next API host, like this.

14:25:06
And then after this, I'm going to say recording slash dollar sign, like this, data user ID slash transcribe. Okay, and let me make sure I dont make any spelling errors here. All right, nice. So, essentially were sending an API request to our NEXTJS application to save all of this data in the database. Thats pretty much it. So were going to have an API point in there.

14:25:33
Okay, and after this, were going to also need to pass in the data itself, right? So, after transcribe were going to create an object like this, and inside this object were going to pass in the file name, all in, you know, small letters in lowercase. So, data dot, where is the data? Okay, data. So, were going to say data file, name. And inside this, were also going to need to pass in the content.

14:26:02
And content is going to be completion choices, Z message, content, and then the transcription is also going to be passed in here. Okay, I made an error here. Let me fix this and cannot find transcription. I think I just completed transcription. What seems to be the error? So, I made an error here, guys, I made a spelling error. And this is why I say you should never do this. And this is why I hate typing.

14:26:29
Okay, but transcription here. Okay. So, make sure you have the correct spellings. And this one is transcriptions. Okay. So, now that we have passed in this transcription, its so weird. I have to say it.

14:26:44
That way, im going to say, if the title and the summary generated DAT status equal to, or not equal to 200, then were going to say, consolelog something went wrong, and I can use the red emoji I got from here And lets go down. And im going to say, consolelog something went wrong when creating the title, titles and title and description. Okay, awesome. And cool.

14:27:22
And now, after this down here, you see we have a bracket right here, right? Were going to hit enter. And inside this were going to do the following. So let me also remove this bracket. This one is unnecessary. We dont really need it. And 1,2.3,4, five. So after this blue one, im going to say, const, stop processing equal to A8. Axios, dopost. Going to invoke that, im going to pass in an object.

14:27:53
Sorry, im going to pass in the string first for the URL endpoints, and im not going to make any spelling errors again. So, im going to copy this and paste it here. Okay. And this one is process environment. Next, API host recording, and were going to pass in the data user ID, SL complete. Okay.

14:28:14
And then after this were going to pass in an object, and this object is going to have the file name set to data. FIl name. All right, nice. And now, after this one, im going to hit enter here. Okay, and here, im going to say, if the status is not equal to 200 again, im going to copy this and say something went wrong during processing.

14:28:38
Okay, so, when were trying to complete the video, so something went wrong when stopping the process and trying to complete the processing stage. Something like this. Okay. And after this, im going to hit enter. And I'm going to say, if stop processing, do status equal to 200, then were going to basically unlink the file. So, im going to say Fs. Unlink. Okay. Going to invoke it. And we have to. Give the folder.

14:29:17
So, im going to say temp tempore. Upload slash plus data, fil name. And this is going to take in an arrow function. So, let me also make sure this, this is the right place. Okay. This should be correct. And, this is going to essentially give me the error message. So, in here, im going to say, if theres no error, then sorry, guys. This is not like this. This is E R R. I'm going to say consolelog.

14:29:49
Okay, was that was so laggy. So consolelog and im going to say data file name plus, just a space plus another string here. Delete deleted successfully. Okay, awesome. And let me copy a green emoji and put that in here as well. Where is that? Okay, nice. Cool. Now, after this, so we have this, if condition after this down here were going to say else or H actually, not this one, its for this. All right.

14:30:29
So else were going to say cons log, and I'm just going to say something happened. All right. So, error upload failed. Okay, process aborted. Okay, and im going to make sure I have this correctly written. So this is here. Let me see wheres the, if condition for this. All right. I think this should be good to go. So, thats pretty much it. Now, we also have our, our AWS stuff. Pretty much set up.

14:31:03
And we also have the, the open AI stuff also set up. So, lets go ahead and grab our AWS keys. Whats up? Prodigies? Just a quick reminder, the remaining eight spots that we have left to get unlimited lifetime access to mentorship, and every single premium course we ever create in the future, including the Prodigies University community, is going to expire soon.

14:31:26
Now, the last time we did this, we ran out of spots in less than 3 minutes. So, if you ever looking to join Prodigy University and get guidance from SAS developers and business owners that are making over $60000 per month, this is your opportunity to join. So, by joining today, you're paying a onetime fee.

14:31:41
So you never have to pay on a subscription base, and you get unlimited access to weekly coaching calls, and every single premium course we ever create. And just as an added bonus for this enrollment period, for the eight people who sign up today, were going to give you unlimited lifetime access to a CRM software that cost $497 per month.

14:31:59
This software is going to help you run, run your entire SAS business, including unlimited funnels, unlimited websites, unlimited automations, unlimited email, marketing forms, and so much more. You're going to need this. Anyway. As well. Invest. Now, join today, so you can get access to all of this bonus value, please keep in mind, this is only for now.

14:32:19
So, if you're joining in the future, or you saw this video, maybe two years from now, we probably dont have this offer out. So, the best way to figure out what we have in todays offer is to click the link in the description and take a look at our website, web, prodigy.com. And, you can see what we have to offer. So, if you want to join, this is the opportunity, click the link and get started.

14:32:39
And I will see you inside. Prodigies University. All right, guys, now, lets, go ahead and set up AWS and our S3 bucket and Cloudfront. And everything we need to host and stream all of our videos. Now, AWS is one of the most requested features on the last poll. And if you dont know what this is, you are missing out on the opportunity to get your ideas featured on web prodigies.

14:33:03
Okay, so, I know you already subscribed. But, if you dont, click the bell notification, theres no point, because the whole point in this is to get notified when that poll comes out. Okay, and that poll is super valuable, because people jump in there, and they suggest the features that they want in the next project.

14:33:20
Okay, and we also show you what the different options are, the different ideas that we created, which we believe that are going to be amazing for Youtube, and for your learning career as well. Okay, my goal is to give all of this away completely for free, because I want you guys to succeed.

14:33:37
I want each and every single prodigy here to quit the round of five, and pretty much run a SAS company, because anyone can do it. Okay, thats my goal. And where I come in is when you're ready. And you want to kind of scale your SAS, if you're already at, you know, around 20 to $30000 per month.

14:33:53
And now, you want to make more money out of it, then I can come in there and pretty much help you guys scale. Okay, thats my goal. So, thats, why im giving you all of this value completely for free. So, go ahead and turn that bell notification. So, you can get all that value when it comes out on your feed. So, first look up AWS.

14:34:12
All right, now, theres a reason why I cannot actively search and show you in real time, because im going to end up leaking some very important credentials that are crucial. And you're, not supposed to share anything from AWS with anybody. Okay, im just showing you because I want you guys to learn, but im not going to be able to show you the keys, of course. So, just understand and ill, ill also give you some guidance.

14:34:36
Okay, so look for AWS and its going to take you to a pages like this. Go ahead and create a free account. All right, so put your email address and your AWS account name, whatever you want. It doesnt really matter. But, go ahead and verify the email. And there are a bunch of steps. Okay, I think there are five steps. And you're going to need to put your credit card.

14:34:57
Of course, thats just how AWS works. And once you're done with that, you can then proceed to the next steps. Okay, AWS is a monster of a service. And, you know, they have, I mean, technically speaking, all the third, all the third party libraries that you see out there, all the third party tools that help you do stuff like security, scaling, all that stuff under the hood. It is AWS, nothing else.

14:35:21
All they do is make it their own. And they sell that service. Thats literally it. Okay. So dont get overwhelmed, but AWS is probably, I mean, its, its big, but you're going to learn a lot in just this one video. Okay, so go ahead, sign in, create the account. And once you're done creating account, putting your credit card, you're going to see something here called the, the plans, essentially, of course, click on the free plan.

14:35:46
Okay, and go ahead and click on complete sign up. All right. And once you're done, its going to take you to a congratulations page, click on, go to the AWS management console, okay, and its going to look something like this. Dont get overwhelmed. But the first thing you want to do is just scroll up top right here, and you want to search for S3 buckets.

14:36:06
Okay, just look for S3. And its going to show you the different services and go ahead and click on S3. All right. S3 is essentially, I mean, you can read all the description and see what it is. But you can store files inside this bucket. Thats pretty much it. Okay, so, go ahead and click on create bucket right here. And thats going to take you into a file that looks like this.

14:36:27
For the file name, just put, I mean, the second you click on this is, is going to give you like a file name, or whatever, just put the name of the bucket. And thats pretty much it. Okay, and click on, create bucket. And then it will take you to a page that looks like this. So, the first thing is, you want to make sure that block, all public access is selected.

14:36:46
And guys, this, this will change. All right. Keep in mind, this is constantly changing, its never going to be the same. However, the idea of an S3 bucket is pretty much the same. Okay, so go ahead and block all public requests, because we want our s re bucket to be private. All right, then for bucket versioning, you want to make sure you click on enable.

14:37:09
Okay, I think this is So before this, youll see something like this. Okay, so you can put the bucket name right here. You can put Opal web, prodes application, or backend, whatever you want, doesnt matter. So put that in there, and then make sure this ACLS disabled is selected. And then, of course, you know, right, click on the block, all public access. And then in here, enable bucket versioning.

14:37:33
Okay, and then down here, next for encryption, were going to enable server side encryption with AWS managed keys. Okay, not this one, the one on top, and then for the bucket, key were going to click on, enabled, then thats pretty much it. Everything else can stay as is, just go ahead and click on. Create bucket, do not click on anything else. All right, click on. Create bucket, create bucket.

14:37:56
And its going to take you to a page like this, and itll. Show your bucket in here. Okay, next were going to need Cloudfront. So, click on the search bar and just search for Cloudfront. And then click on this one, cloudfront, right here. And thats going to take you to a page that looks like this. But first, before we create cloud front itself, we need to actually create an origin access, distribution.

14:38:17
And Cloudfront will use that distribution to basically distribute content. Okay, so click on this sidebar. And down here, you're going to click on origin access. Okay, thats what were creating. So, go down, click on this, and then its going to take you into a page like this. And then you want to click on no origin controls. Okay, so, once you're done clicking on this, oh, sorry, guys, you want to click on the create control settings.

14:38:44
I was actually reading this, and I accidentally said that. So yeah, you want to click on create control settings, and thats going to take you into a page that looks like this. So, go ahead, put the name. I'm just going to call it video streaming. OAC. Okay. Origin access control, right Thats it. So, put something for the name. And here you want to click CCK on sign in request. Okay, so click on this.

14:39:04
And here, the origin type has to be set to S3. And then go ahead and click on. Creates. And thats going to create our, our distribution, sorry, our origin access, like this. And now that this is done, you can click on distributions. And then we can go from there. Okay. So click on distributions right here. Inside the Nav bar or sidebar. And then thats going to take you back to Cloudfront.

14:39:27
Okay, so once you're on this page, now, you can click on create Cloudfront distribution. Now, if you've already used all of this, you probably are not going to see this introduction page, right? You will just see a table that looks very similar to something like this, and just click, create on the side. Okay, so click on, create Cloudfront distribution, its going to take you into a page that looks like this.

14:39:48
The first thing you want to set is the origin domain. So, for this, you're going to click on the drop down, and you're going to click your S3 bucket. Okay, so click on that. And next, if you scroll down, you're, going to find this origin access, right here, click on origin, access, control settings, okay.

14:40:07
And then down here, you're going to hit this drop down, and you're going to create that origin access that we just created. And the second you do that, its going to show a message that looks like this, that says, you must update the S3 bucket policy. And dont worry, were actually going to do it later. Not right now, but just make sure you change this one.

14:40:26
The drop down right here to that new OAC that we just created. Then down here, I think everything else should be fine. You can leave this stuff. Okay. So, for viewer, protocol policy, you want to set it to redirect HTTP, and to HTTPS. Okay, thats just a secure way. And thats, thats what I recommend you do. And then in here, you're going to have web application firewall.

14:40:49
Now, this is the, I think this was a newer UI previously, they never had this, but I just selected, do not enable security protection. And if you want to learn about this, guys in AWS, I mean, a WS is pay, as you go for everything, right? But usually, when you are, when you're, trying to click on something, you dont know what is paid and whats not this info is a hint, okay.

14:41:12
If you click on info, theyll show you AWS, WF pricing. And that way, you can see whats the pricing involved and all that stuff. Anyways, its just like, couple cents and stuff like that. So, you shouldnt really matter, again, read that, and then thats the true source of all truth. Okay. So, select, do not enable security protection. So, that way, we dont get this extra stuff right here.

14:41:33
And then everything else can stay, as is, just make sure you have the same options on your end as well. And once this is done, you can go ahead and click on create distribution. Okay, nice. Now, its going to take you into a page that looks like this. Okay, this is where your distributions are. And in here, you can see its probably still going to be deploying.

14:41:56
So if it is, dont worry, just keep proceeding, because we also have to create the policy, right. So, youll, see the nav bar right here. Theyll show you this thing. You want to copy this policy. Itll, they will give you the policy, okay, click on this, copy this policy. And then you see this link right here. You want to click on the go to s3 bucket permission, link.

14:42:17
Okay, so click on this one, its going to take you into the policy page. And thats going to look something like this, right? Or actually, for you, whats probably going to happen is its going to redirect to a page that looks like, I mean, its probably going to be the bucket itself.

14:42:32
Okay, so, if you see right here, you have permissions, right, this is the permissions tab, and click on the permissions tab, not objects or anything else this one, okay. Because by default, its going to redirect you to the buckets slash, you know, your bucket itself.

14:42:46
So, click on permissions, and down here, just scroll down, okay, scroll all the way down, you're, going to find the bucket policy, right, you're going to find this bucket policy here, you want to scroll to the right, and you want to click on edit, okay. And once you click on edits, its going to take you into a page that looks like this. In here, you want to just paste your policy.

14:43:09
So click and paste, and then click on save changes at the bottom right here. Okay, and once thats done, lets go to the next page. Okay, once thats done, its going to take you into a page that looks like this. And this is essentially the policy. And, I mean, this is basically your, your distrib Bution. And as you can see, now, mine is already completed for you, it might take some time, right?

14:43:36
But now its completed. And now that its done, we can go to our bucket to essentially upload a new video if you want. Okay, so if you click on the, let me see right here. Okay, so switch the tab, right? Or you can go to buckets. You can go back to S3, click on the search, go to S3. And its going to take you to Amazon buckets, right Go back into that.

14:43:59
And then you click on object, objects. And once you click on objects, now, you can go ahead and upload a video. But, we dont really need to do this part, because were going to be uploading everything through our API, through the API and the SDK, right? But, if you wanted to test it out, you can do this if you want.

14:44:17
But dont do anything right now, because the next step is, we need to get all our API keys from this, and the access key as well. Okay. All right, guys. So, now that we have set up our S3 buckets and cloud Front were going to need an, A, ACC key and a secret key. Okay, so, please follow this from start to finish. And again, do not share this credentials with anyone else.

14:44:40
Okay, so you're going to go back to your AWS console. All right. You can just click here. Or if theres a go back home, button, something, just click there. So, it takes you here. Or you can just use the search field. And you can look up users. Okay. And thats going to show you, I am. Feature. I am, am okay. Click on this. All right. You want to click on users. Click on this one.

14:45:02
And its going to take you into a dashboard that looks like this. Okay, I stands for identify and identity and access management. Okay, so, we need to essentially create a user that can get access to our AWS console. Okay, so you're going to go in here, and you're, going to click on create user, and thats going to take you into a page that looks like this.

14:45:24
I'm, just calling this super admin, you can call it whatever you want. I'm going to call it super admin, and then im going to click next. Thats going to take me to this page, where I'm going to first click on attach policies directly. And the reason is because we are going to need to send, we are using our NODEJS environment to call, right, AWS. So, were going to need to click on attach policies directly.

14:45:47
So, that way, we can attach the exact policies that we need. Okay. So, if you dont, see this, its, because you have to first click on this. So click this, and then all the permission policies will show up here. And then on the, and then essentially, you can look up only S3, look up S3 in here. And then you want to select Amazon S3 full access, thats what we need. Okay.

14:46:09
So go ahead and click on this policy. And then you want to click on next, and its going to take you into a page that looks like this. You can verify if you need, but it should be correct. And then go ahead and create the user. And it might also send you into a P into another page with a description or something like that. Just just keep pushing.

14:46:30
All right, just go to the create user tab and click on. Create user done. Now, you have this super admin right here, right Its going to take you into the I'm, I'm dashboard. And you can see you have the super admin, user, click on this user, and its going to take you into a page that looks like this. Now, you need to create the access key. And you can create the access key in two ways.

14:46:50
One is using the shortcut here. Okay, create access key, or you can go into security credentials. And then youll have to scroll down until you find access key, the header, it sort of look like this. And itll, say access keys. And under that, youll see a create button. And then you can create an access key from there, but I'm using this because its a shortcut. So, click on, create access key.

14:47:11
And thats going to take you into a page that looks like this. Now, our application, of course, is running outside AWS. So, for that reason, you can click on this option, right here. Okay, which is you, you plan to use this access key to authenticate workload, running time in running in your data center or other inF structure, outside AWS. Thats what we want. So, click on that, and click on next.

14:47:34
And then its going to ask, you, description, tag, value, just skip over it, click, create access key. And thats pretty much it. Now, its going to give you access key here, like this. You want to copy this. And inside your environment variables, you're going to find access key, AC, C, sore key, all in caps. Okay. Paste the value inside the access key.

14:47:59
And then for the secret key, you're going to find another one inside your environment variable called secret key. Okay. Or just take a look at what it what it says inside your environment file. And then you want to essentially copy this key and paste it in there. Okay. And ILL also show you just in case how to get the right spelling. So, you dont make an error. Okay.

14:48:19
And ILL show you what it should look like. And thats, thats pretty much it. Okay. And then make sure you click on. Done. And thats it, guys. Now, you have your keys and you're, all set ready to go. All right. Now, theres one more environment variable that we need. And this environment variable is called bucket region. Okay. And here you can also see the spelling of access, key and secret key.

14:48:42
Okay, so, do not make this spelling error. Now, when you're passing in the region, if you go into your AWS console, and you can click on this and click on S3, or you can just look at S3 right here. Or you can click on buckets as well. Okay, its going to take you to this page, right, where you can see all of the buckets you have created. And in here, we just created this new bucket.

14:49:04
You, where we just created a new bucket, you're going to see the AWS region right here. And the value is only this section, nothing else. Okay, US, US, east2, I dont think you need to put all of this. Just this part right here. So, mine is US East2. Go, take a look at yours. So, you know where yours is hosted. And then get that string and populate your do environment file, under this specific key.

14:49:28
Okay, awesome. Now, open up the terminal. And im going to say, npm Runev for our express server. Next, im going to go to our desktop application. And im going to say npm this is the electron, right Npm run dev as well. So, run dev. And finally, we also need the web application version. So let me go ahead and grab that. Okay, right here. So, I have this one set up. Awesome, cool, nice.

14:49:56
Now, hey, I can see the video. And I can also see this module right here, and the other one, our tray right here. Okay, so we can go ahead and first ensure that our socket is connected, and our socket, indeed is connected. So, were good to go on that side.

14:50:16
And our next step is, were going to need to try to record, okay, were going to have to try to record and see what happens if everything works. Great. If an error took place, no problem, we will solve that error. Okay, awesome. Now, go ahead and I'm going to put this in here. And let me move this up here. And let me record, hey, hows it going? This is parin here. From web prodigies.

14:50:39
And I am recording this video, but unfortunately, it crashed. Okay, let me take a look at what happened. Okay, give me a second guys at our application, which is our web application version. And of course, we didnt first create the endpoint, right? Remember, we were sending some data from our express server, right? And we, we have to listen to that on our web application version.

14:51:03
So, go ahead and you want to open up this API folder in here. And inside this API folder, were going to need to create a bunch of folders or routes thats going to help us accomplish this. So, the first one is called, let me hit on this one more time. Okay, we have to create a folder called recording. Okay. So, I'm going to say, recording, like this.

14:51:31
And inside the recording folder, were going to have a bunch of other routes thats going to help us accomplish this. So first create another one, which is a dynamic ID. And inside that, you have to create complete. And then inside ID, you want to create processing. And then we also need transcribe, right? So I'm going to say, lets create another one. Why did this do this? Okay. Dont make any spelling errors. Okay. All right.

14:51:59
So complete processing and transcribe. Nice. Now, first lets do the processing. Okay, the processing route. So im going to click on this and say, create a new file and say routes. Oops. Whats going on here? Okay. Inside this one route, typescript. And inside this first, I'm going to export an async function. Okay, async function. And this function is called post. All right.

14:52:27
And inside this, were going to first get our request, which is going to be of type next request. Okay. And were also going to get some PAMs. So, which is the ID. So, lets go ahead and say PAMs. And these PAMs are going to be as follows, which is PAMs like this. And thats going to have an ID, which is going to be a string. And im also going to hit enter here, because I like to have.

14:52:53
Actually. No. That looks horrible. Let me keep it like this. Never mind. Okay, so first, we need were going to need to get the body from this. So were going to, to say, const body equal to await request. JSON were going to invoke that, and then were going to get our ID from the params as well. So, im going to say params. Okay, sorry, equal to like this. We can destructure.

14:53:14
We can also destructure directly in here, but im going to do it down here. And then im going to say const personal workspace, ID equal to await client, user, and client comes from Prisma client. So, lets grab that, and im going to say, user find unique were going to invoke that.

14:53:34
And in here were going to pass in where, and I'm going to say ID is the same ID, and were going to select the following info. So, we need the workspace, like this, and in here were going to say where the users workspace is of type, personal. And from, from that, we want to select this information, we want ID set to true. So, were going to get the ID.

14:54:03
And then we want to order by created at, in this ascending order. Okay, so ASC, awesome. Now. Scroll down here. And after this. And guys, also, you should definitely put everything in a tr catch block. Okay, I made this error before, and it was just really annoying. It doesnt. I mean, its not going to break any I, it is going to break something if you dont, have tr catch.

14:54:27
But its going to make it so much easier to debug, right? So, in here, you see, we can just console and print the error, right? So, im going to copy this. And im going to print saying error in processing, okay. Or lets remove this. So, we know this error is coming from this endpoint, right? So, error, or I'm just going to keep it error in processing video, okay.

14:54:52
And let me go in here now, and also print the error. So, im going to say error like this. So, after this hit enter, and were going to say, start processing now. So start processing video equal to await client workpace, do update. And now what were going to do is were going to say where, and were going to say, ID is personal workspace, ID workspaces at Z ID.

14:55:23
Okay, and then the data we want to update is for videos and were going to create and a placeholder, right? So were going to say, the source is going to be body, fil name, file name, okay, all lowercase, and then the user ID is going to be ID. Okay. And after this green bracket, or after, let me see, so this is a green bracket, this is a blue.

14:55:51
Okay, so after videos right here, after data, you want to say select, and in here were going to select the user. Okay, and for, from user were going to select the subscription and from the subscription were going to select the plan itself. So, plan is going to be true. Okay. And now, after this down here, you're going to say, if start, start processing, video was successful, then were going to return next response.

14:56:22
Json, Json, and were going to invoke that and were going to pass in the status of 200. And our plan is going to be start processing video, user subscription plan. And if nothing happened, here, were just going to return a status of 400. Okay, awesome. Cool. Now that we finished the processing route, lets finish the transcribing route.

14:56:51
Okay, so were going to click on transcribe, and inside here were going to create route, typescript were going to export an async function called post. And this function is going to do the following. So, first, we need the request. So im going to grab that. So its, of type next request. All right. And inside this, im going to also, oh, oh, sorry, were also going to get the PAMs, right?

14:57:15
So, PAMs, and this is going to have PAMs, which is going to have an ID of string. Okay. And now, inside this function, im going to say const body equal await request. JSON. And then I'm going to destructure ID from the PAMs. Okay. And once this is done, I'm going to say transcribe. So, const transcribe transcribed equal, await client video update.

14:57:47
And in here, im going to say where our user ID is going to be ID, and the source is going to be the body file name. Okay, but we want to update the following data. So, were going to say data is title, and this is going to be the content, and this content is going to come from our body, right? So, im going to say const content equal, jsonparse body content. Okay, like this.

14:58:19
And now I can say content tile. Okay, and after title, description is going to be content summary. Okay, I might need to change this. Let me, let me zoom out a little bit. I think I zoomed out. Zoomed in too much for you guys. Let me take a look at the other application. And what are we doing in here? So, summary, my passing, any summary anywhere. Okay, so I made the error here.

14:58:49
Okay, let me see if I have this spelling somewhere. Okay, so all of this is going to need to change to this. So, so let me first click on this one, change it to summary, this one. ILL also change this here as well. A Y. Okay, summary and summary in here as well. Okay, and that should not leave us with any errors. Okay, no errors. Awesome.

14:59:17
Okay, not sure if that is going to cause any problems. But, I took a look at this in here. And maybe it will, because we have title and summary. Right? And we have the title and summary as well. So, I just want to make sure I fix that. Okay. All right. Then after this, we also need the summary, which is going to be the transcript.

14:59:36
So, I'm going to say, transcript, and were getting our transcript from whisper. Ai. Okay, awesome. Now, after this down here, were going to say, if transcribed, if this is successful, then first, I'm going to print a message, saying, storing, storing in KB. Okay. And after this, im going to need to get some options. So, const options equal to, and the method is going to be post.

15:00:05
Our URL is going to be, actually, we can also see if this works first, because H, let me think, guys, give me a second. Okay, so instead of this, what well do in here is I'm, just going to say, if this is good to go, everything is successful, then I'm, just going to return a 200. And I'm also going to put a work in progress, flat flag and say, wire up AI agent. Okay.

15:00:34
All right, we need an AI agent to essentially enable communication between the, the transcript and the video and the customer, right? Because were going to have this super cool AI feature, where the user can also text the, the AI and get responses, right? So were going to need an AI agent that can handle the knowledge base, and stuff like that. So, for that right here, I'm just going to say, next response.

15:00:59
JSON like this, and I'm also going to say, consoleLOG, and were going to print a green color icon and say, transcribed. Okay. All right. Awesome. So now that now that we created, this lets also do the complete process. So, inside complete route Typescript, I'm going to export an async function called Post. Were going to invoke this. And then here were going to pass in the following.

15:01:26
So, first, we need a request from the PAMs. I'm going to say, request is next request. Okay. And then after this were going to have the PAMs. So, PAMs, and this is going to be of type, PAMs, and ID, which is going to be string. And inside this were going to say, const body.8, request JSON, and were going to destructure ID from PAMS. And then I'm going to say complete processing.

15:01:55
And this is essentially, what were going to do in here is, were going to go into our database. And remember, I told you in the starting that were going to create that placeholder entry, right? We just need to update that, that Boolean property processing to false. So, I'm going to say, const complete processing equal.

15:02:10
Await clients video update for this user ID and the source where it is, this file name, and were going to change the data from processing, which was true to false. Okay, and if this is successful, were going to return 200 response and were going to say next response. JSON, and return 200. And if it wasnt, well, return 400. Let me see if I'm doing.

15:02:33
Okay, if this is not, I'm going to return 400. And I'm also going to consolelog a message here, saying something went wrong. Okay, encryption went wrong. All right. Awesome. Okay, so now that we have this, let me also make sure we have all other end points. If not, ill, come back and create thats, totally fine. Okay, lets go ahead and try once more, guys, so im opening up the terminal here. Make sure this is running.

15:03:03
Make sure our express is also running. Okay, socket is also completed, and im going to save this once more. And try to connect the socket again. All right, nice. Or I might need to quit first guys, sorry, let me first, quit, and then im going to restart. So, npM run, dev. You're going to see a sudden burst in volume. Give me a second. Okay. All right. Cool.

15:03:26
Now, that we have this, im also going to show you, so everything is running here. Okay, and we can try once more and see how it goes. So, you see socket ID was disconnected, nice, and we connected a new socket again. All right, so this is the video. And im going to go ahead and try to record.

15:03:45
So im recording with this device and the screen that im recording with is going to be, let me change it. Well, not screen. Okay. Screen. Well, screen two, not screen one. Okay, cool. Is it recording? All right? It is recording. Cool. All right, guys. Ready 3,2.1. App crashed again, waiting for file changes before starting and it said status 500. So im going to stop this. All right, guys. So something looks wrong.

15:04:12
I need to go ahead and fix this first. So, let me do that and then, well, continue. Okay, so I found the error. And its super, super annoying. I'm just going to show you what exactly happened.

15:04:24
Okay, so first problem is, I noticed that when I looked at the console, the message or the error message that I was getting, it wasnt very descriptive, which means its, because the, I mean, the node modon is pretty much crashing. And thats exactly what happened received. 500. The other thing I noticed is we did not get this type of error.

15:04:47
So, what thats telling me is the error is probably happening in some part in our application above this place, because this is the first type of error that were printing, right? And the other thing is, I'm not printing any data, like I'm not saying consolelog data or anything. So, this data I'm getting is an EROR log that noon is trying to give us. Thats pretty much it. So, what I did is I essentially hid everything.

15:05:10
So, I commented out everything in our file, and one by one, I tested each and every single line. Okay, only up till here, because I know the problem was happening somewhere around this area. And I also tested this section first. And you dont want to test each line, right? You want to test each section. And then, based on each section, then you go into it, right? So, I tested this section. This was good to go.

15:05:32
So, video chunks were being saved, but our processing had an error. So, I commented out everything in here, and I knew it was going to be in here somewhere. And then I noticed that this line wasnt here. So, if I mean, if we dont, provide any data here, that also means that on our web application were supposed to get a unexpected end of JSON error, right? And thats exactly what we got in here, right?

15:05:57
You see unexpected end of JSON on. So the fix here was just to say, file name, data, fil name, and you want to pass it in here. And thats pretty much it. That was the fix. Okay, so im going to try once more, going to scroll all the way to the bottom, want to make sure im recording the right screen. All right, and my socket is connected. Awesome.

15:06:18
And now lets go ahead and record, hey, hows it going? This is parin here. Im recording this video to show you the power of Opal. Now, you can use Opal if you want to just send a friend or a family, a good message, or pretty much whatever you want. You can also use it for client outreach. And in fact, thats what I use when I want to help out clients in the field of SAS.

15:06:42
Okay, awesome. So, if you like this video, and you like the software, you can go ahead and you can go to Opal web prodigies on Youtube. And you can learn more about how we built this full stack application. Okay, so I closed it. And if you take a look at the file structure, RURE, we see a temporary file, okay. And it looks like it also deleted it or did it HM.

15:07:07
So, video chunk was saved something. Okay, lets just take a look. Let me go into my AWS console. And I'm going to do that off camera, of course. So, just give me a second. All right, guys, so I found the problem. So, you see here, this is the order. First, we need to get the first chunk, right So socket connected, then first chunk, then the chunk has to be saved.

15:07:29
And then every chunk that comes in has to be saved accordingly, right in the right order. And then when we hit stop, the video should pretty much stop. And we have to process the video and then upload it to AWS, and then also delete it from the file structure. This is what we should do. Now, if you look inside our code, you're going to find this beautiful error that we made here.

15:07:52
This right here was renamed to on start. So, what we did is we passed the on on the stop recording function, which is right here, which essentially emits the process video event, we assign that to the on start instead. So, when we were recording, what was happening is it was instantly stopping the video. So, because of that, of course, were not even getting any of the thumbnails or were not even getting the video itself.

15:08:21
So, thats the first fix. Okay. And im going to show you something right here. So, you can take a look at this. Let me move this into. ILL, just keep this out for now. Okay, there you go. You see, our video looks amazing, right? And if you click on it, it takes you into the video section. And you can see, you know, pretty much the title, whatever.

15:08:42
Now, the second error that we had to fix was inside our application itself. So, not this one were going to go into, let me see, not this either. Okay, this one, and you're essentially going to put your Cloudfront URL. Okay, if you dont know how to get the Cloudfront URL, I'm going to show you in just a second. Okay, so you want to go into Cloudfront. Inside your AWS console.

15:09:07
So, you can search, literally, search for Cloudfront in here. And then you're going to find this option, click on it, and then you want to click on the distributions. So its going to take you into this page. And then you want to click on your distribution. Okay, the one you created, and this right here is your cloudfront URL. Okay, so copy this, URL. And then you're going to go into your env.

15:09:28
And you want to add that URL without the trailing backslash. Okay. And thats essentially going to help us render the video in the first place. So, thats why we werent seeing any, any video. Okay, im seeing this error. So, I'm just going to refresh my front end. And let me go ahead and say, bun run dev. I cant type. Okay. And lets also refresh this, and lets give it a second. Okay, there you go. Awesome.

15:09:55
So, that fixed our problem where the video was not being saved. And thats why. If you had an opportunity to take a look at your dashboard, you would find the video being created, because we were processing it first, and then we were saving the chunks. Okay, so, the video itself, wasnt getting pushed to AWS. Okay. It was only like the first section itself, because when processing gets fired, it does everything. Okay.

15:10:20
Now, the other problem I found is with the microphone. So, you're going to notice that the AI is still working, its working, it does its job. But theres no transcript of transcript for our video. Thats because I think theres no audio. Okay. So, you see right here, I'm recording something, and I was singing a song, but nothing was working. Okay, so, our audio transcript is not being created.

15:10:45
So, thats the next bug I need to solve, which is why is it not even sending? And I think its something to do with electron. And after that, I think all the major bugs are pretty much solved. And then we can move on to hopefully no more bugs. Okay, all right, guys. Awesome. I will see you in about 10 minutes, cuz, I need to go get some food, and I am starving. Peace out.

15:11:06
All right, guys. So, im not entirely sure as to where the audio error was coming from, but the first thing I changed was in here, I had a, IF condition, and I was rendering something else. I think I was probably rendering false or something, right? So, yeah, I was rendering false if this does not exist. And it doesnt really matter. I just added that in there. And I think thats not the problem.

15:11:32
I think its, the microphone that im using, that is not compatible because it has a software and all that kind of crazy stuff. So, I think maybe thats whats going on? Okay, because I recorded a video right here. And as you can see, all the way at the bottom, testing out new microphone. Okay, all I did was change my microphone input, and that just fixed the problem. So that could, thats probably whats going on? Okay.

15:12:00
Now, if you click on it, just to show you that it works. Okay, it looks like I also got, oh, I'm getting this, because im out of memory, my entire computer is getting fried. Let me go ahead and spin this up again. Okay, there we go. So, first thing, title, its exactly what I was talking about. Then we have the description, which is pretty much its pretty decent. It does a job. Okay.

15:12:27
And if you click on transcript, you can see its giving us the transcript as well. All right, so, a bunch of stuff is going on, and I think the transcript might be wrong, I think what im doing is I'm setting the transcript, and I'm kind of mixing the transcript and the description. So, thats something that I might need to change. But apart from that, if I click on this, hey, hows it going Just T microphone.

15:12:56
There you go. You can hear its, a horrible microphone. Okay? I'm just using the Mac, the Macbook microphone, but you can see it works. Okay, so thats it for this part. Now, we have a couple more things we need to fix. Let me also go ahead and see if I can fix the description and the transcript bug. Okay, all right, guys now go ahead and quit your Node.

15:13:17
Modon server, and also your electron server as well. Okay, we dont really need it for now. And you're going to open up your folder structure in your web application version. And you're going to go to videos preview, index, TSX. And you're going to scroll down here. And you're going to notice we have this editor component, right? So, go in here, and unmute, uncomment this. Okay.

15:13:40
And if you dont, have it, just go ahead and type this out. And essentially were going to build out this component. And one more thing is scroll down here. And, if you notice inside transcript, this was actually description. You want to change it to summary. Okay, and now, lets go up all the way up here and were going to copy this and were going to open up our folder structure.

15:14:04
And inside the videos component were going to create edit. TSX. And now, inside this, im going to return a component using TSRCE, and lets rename this component. Now, this is of course going to need those props that are being passed in. So, we need the title, description, and the video ID. And I'm also going to go ahead and destructure. These values. And inside this component, were essentially going to render a model.

15:14:31
Okay, and this model is going to have a form where you can pretty much edit the video elements. So lets import this edit video component, lets go back into the component itself. And now we can render out this component. So let me see if I can. Okay, here you go. Edit video, see this. Right? Awesome. So lets go ahead and return a modal component.

15:14:53
Okay, and this modal component is going to need a title and a description. So, im going to say title, and I'm going to set something, edit video details. And, you know, description as well. Doesnt really matter. Just put something for now. And then we need the trigger. So, for trigger, I'm going to set this to a button component, and this button is going to have variant of ghost, not value, variant of ghost. Okay.

15:15:26
And then we also need class name, name. So, border. 2. Like this. And inside this, were going to create an edit button. Okay, so im going to use the edit icon. So, it just shows like this. And you can give it a dark color if you like, let me go ahead and set one right now. Okay, and you can also probably, we can probably just remove this border, right? It looks horrible.

15:15:53
And maybe we can change this, make it slightly darker. Okay. All right. That does the job. I think people understand, right? So, when you click on it, we can show all the details. And we can go ahead and edit these items. Okay, so, the first thing is, were going to create a component inside this model called edit video form. Now, ID, also like for you to take up a small challenge.

15:16:18
Now, the ideal user experience would not be this experience right here, which is basically, you know, having a model, and the user has to update the information through the model. Remember, how we had the rename functionality for folders, that would be the best experience. Okay, so ID, like for you, to try to see if you can create the same experience for this.

15:16:43
And what that means is, when they user double clicks, the title here, they can directly change it. And when they click outside, it saves. Okay. And the same thing for the description as well. So, I think this would be a great feature to have, and I personally love it when I have to do that, and I hate models. Okay, so, now lets go ahead and create this form component. So, open up your folder.

15:17:05
You want to scroll into forms right here. And you're going to create a folder called edit. Das video. And inside this, an index. TsX. And you guys know, a schema, typescript, and lets return a component here. And im going to rename this component. And this component is going to need the video ID, the title and the description. So, im going to grab all of this. So that way, I can populate it as default values, right?

15:17:32
And in here, im also going to destructure these values. Okay, and now were going to use a hook called use edit video. So, open up your folder structure, go to hooks. And in here, I'm going to create use edit video typescript. And im going to say export, const use edit video. Okay, and this is going to be an arrow function.

15:17:54
Let me zoom in a little bit more so you guys can see clearly, and in inside this, again, its were going to need to pass in all of the values, right. The video title, and description. That way, we can set the default values using ZOD forms. So in here, im going to say const and set this to use ZOD form. Okay. I'm going to invoke it.

15:18:14
And now im going to get access to a bunch of values. So, im going to go ahead and grab as many as I can get. Okay, like this. If we dont, need something, we can remove it. I mean, actually, we dont need anything other than form, submit, register, and errors. So, let me remove this. Watch, we dont really need this. Just, this is good enough. Okay. And now, we need to pass in the A schema.

15:18:39
So, lets open up our folder structure. And im going to go into our form. Why? Why did I lose access to the form? Oh, okay. Its right here. So, scroll up into your forms component. And inside the schema, were going to say import. I think you guys already know this stuff, right? So, no need to type important stuff. So were going to get the ZOD object, and then were going to create our schema.

15:19:05
So, export, const edit video infos schema is Z object with the title, description. And thats it. Okay, title is, Z string, with minimum of five characters. And if, and we can also provide a message here, saying the video title must be at least five characters. And this will be used for the error message, and for description. Were going to say Z string, min 100. And the video description must be at least 100 characters.

15:19:30
Now, lets go back and lets quickly pass in the schema, like this, and lets import the schema. Okay. And next, after this, we also have to pass in the mutate function. Now, for mutate, were going to get it from use mutation data. So, im going to say, const use mutation data, and were going to invoke that, and now were going to get access to mutate and is pending.

15:19:57
So, lets grab these values, vales and now, we can pass those values in here. So, after this, we can say mutate like this, and then were also going to need to pass in some default values, right? So, im going to pass those in as well. So, im going to say title and description. Okay, now, for the use mutation data in here, im going to pass in the mutation key first. So, this is edit, das video.

15:20:23
And then were going to need a callback function. And this callback function is going to give us access to data, which is going to have our title, which is going to be a string. And our description, which is going to be a string as well. And after this, were going to basically pass in a server action. Thats going to help us change this data. So, this server action is called edit video, info. Okay.

15:20:54
And, we just need to pass in the information that we have so far. So, first thing were going to need inside this server action is, of course, the video ID. So, we can update for that video ID. Then the next thing that we need is the data, so data tile, and data description. Okay, awesome. So, now that this is done, lets go ahead and create that.

15:21:19
Also, we need to just pass in the, the key for the mutation, not mutation key, but the query key. So, im going to go ahead and say preview. Das video. Okay, all right, now lets, go ahead and build this out. So, im going to open up my folder structure. Going to go into actions into workspace. And inside here, im going to say, export, const edit video info, which is going to be an async function.

15:21:45
And inside this, first thing were going to need to do is, were going to need to capture the user information, right? Or actually, we dont even need to do that. What I would suggest, guys, is you take this server action and try to figure out a way to just put it in another server action. So, we can just fire some default data. Okay, like verify user, okay, something like that.

15:22:06
So, down here, im going to essentially get those values that were passing in as arguments, right? So, lets grab those, and then im going to pass in a tr catch. And inside the tr catch, im going to say const video equal to await client video, do update. So, essentially, first were trying to, were trying to essentially find this video with the video ID.

15:22:32
Thats passed in, right So you're going to say, where, okay, where the video ID, sorry, guys, where the ID is, like the video ID. Thats passed in. And after this, we want to pass in data. And for data were going to just pass in the title and the description. So, these are the fields we want to essentially update.

15:22:51
And after this, if we got a response, and everything is good to go, well, return 200. And say video successfully updated. If not, will return 404 and say video not found, or in here, will return another 404 as well. Okay, thats pretty much, it now lets go back and import our beautiful server action. Did we already have this? Of course, I dont think we have it. Yeah, what am I saying? Never mind.

15:23:14
Okay, I just S thought I saw something, it was a little confused there. Okay, so now that this is done, this hook is created. We also have to return all this data. So im going to say return, and then an object on form, submit, register errors and is pending. Okay, now lets go back. And now, inside our edit video form, we can use our new hook. So const were just going to use this for now.

15:23:43
And then im going to say use edit video. And now we can destructure all the values. So, error is spending on form on form, submit and register. And now, I need to pass in our video ID, the title and the description. So, once this is passed in, I can now create my form. So, form like this, if it will, give me. Okay, thank you.

15:24:09
Now, I have to pass in my on submit, which is going to be the on form submit. And the class name is going to be flex. Flex, das column gap, D, Y5. Okay. And inside the form element or the form itself, we have to first have input fields, right? So, the first one is called form generator. You guys know this magical component that we created, right? So lets go ahead and import this form generator component.

15:24:40
We need to pass in the register. Let me also open this so we can see whats going on. Okay, pass and register. And is it even rendering anything? I dont think so. Okay, thats because we havent imported it. So, let me go ahead and import this component. So now we can see whats going on. Okay, nice. So we have the form component form generator component in here.

15:25:02
And for, register were going to pass the register that we just got from our hook errors, the name, which is title, input, type, the type, which is text, the placeholder, and the label itself. Okay, so now, when you click on it, you see, there you go.

15:25:19
Now, for some reason, default values is also not being set, but thats something that you can just look into, if youd like, but I think it should technically do it because of register. Let me take a look, guys, give me a second. So use ZOD, form. I have handle, submit in here. Default values. Okay. So if you want, you can technically pass in default values into this. Just take this. You see the third one.

15:25:47
So, schema mutation, and default values, right? So, schema, mutation, and default values. So, whats, what? Why is this not really working? It should work. Okay. I think I know why. All right. Its not too big of a deal. You can take a look at one of the last videos. I think I have a better approach to it, but because you have to reset some values and stuff, right? I'm not really bothered too much.

15:26:09
I just want to make sure that our elements are working as fine, right? As intended. So, the next one is the register again, for the description. So, register label errors, name, input type is going to be text area, and the number of lines, you can reduce this to four or five. I'm just going to put seven here or five. Sounds better. And then placeholder were going to say video description.

15:26:33
So, the user can also update it directly from here. Okay, and this is not haP, this is gap, dy of five. Thats it. So, now, you can also update the elements of these, the video file itself. Okay, great job. So, now lets go back into our component right here. Because we need to pass in our props and were going to pass in the video title and description. Oh, that was. Okay. Never mind. Thank God.

15:27:02
I thought I had to go ahead and set up reset and reset form values or on all that kind of weird stuff, weird stuff. But, okay, so its working, sorry about that. Its just because we did not pass in the video ID. And the title and description here, again, apologies on that. Okay, so lets go back. And if you scroll down, you're, going to find another edit video right here. So, go ahead and unmute.

15:27:28
M this one as well. Okay, so that way, we can have that component show right here as well. So you can edit here. So, yeah, guys, I would like to see you take this up as a challenge and try to do the double click for this as well. I think that would be a really nice feature to have. And just to show you, our transcript, is showing the right transcript now.

15:27:48
And it looks like the description is pretty solid. Okay, pretty AI generated, but you can do some prompting, I'm sure you can do that. Now, theres one more amazing AI feature. We need to still create. This is the AI agent. And in my opinion, I absolutely love this feature, because I myself would use it as much as possible. The AI agent is smart, because its aware of the context of the video.

15:28:14
That means it knows every single thing thats mentioned inside the video itself. Super cool feature, right? So that means if someone wants to ask a question, they can get answers from that video in the context of that video. Now, this feature can be really useful in a course creation, you know, application SAS application, for example, lets say that course creation platform gave access to Opal, right?

15:28:43
They partnered up with Opel and said, hey, you can host your videos inside. This lets create some partnership here, right? And essentially, when you share your videos, and you pretty much put it into opal, sorry, you put it into their platform, you get you, you can also give their students, right, their students access to this AI agent.

15:29:03
So, if they have questions about course modules, they can ask the AI agent, and it will give them answers. And another cool feature is, lets say if they want the time stamp of a video that they want to revisit, but they just forgot which specific module it is, the AI agent is aware of all the knowledge, and it can tell the user that, you know, this is the specific module.

15:29:27
And this is what I got from it. This is going to help you, right? Super helpful feature. Another one is imagine if we want to explain our modules, or, or not explain, but basically communicate all of our modules. But in different languages, this is a complex task, if someone doesnt understand something, and you only explain in English, well, thats a big population that you also want to help out, right?

15:29:52
But this AI agent can also explain in different languages. So, you see, the possibilities are pretty much infinite. And we are able to help more people by just having this AI agent feature, right. But before we build that, I also want to show you another powerful feature or not a feature, essentially, its just the homepage inside our dashboard. And this homepage is going to act as a mode of communication between you and your customer.

15:30:22
Okay, that means in this page were going to have a way to not essentially send email marketing, but market in a less aggressive way, by also conveying the message and the power of using Opal. And they themselves will see how powerful it is, because of the features were going to put inside the homepage. Okay, so, lets go ahead and get started with that.

15:30:44
Now, go ahead and pause what you're doing, I'm going to explain some concepts that are going to help you build smarter and much more scalable user experiences for your website or your SAS application. Now, in most SAS applications were going to have a mode of communication, right, between our SAS and our customer.

15:31:05
Some might even choose to have multiple, for example, customers can maybe subscribe to an email marketing channel, and they can get email messages, right? Emails, that essentially show them the new cool features that our SAS offered, right? Or we could have another channel, which is a Youtube channel, right? And we can probably share new messages, new features inside this as well. Another form could be something like a newsletter, right?

15:31:35
So, there, you see, there are different ways of us communicating with our customers. Now, in my personal opinion, what better way to show them. The power of opal, other than just using opal itself to deliver our message.

15:31:51
If we could figure out a way to deliver our message to our customers, without them having to look into their, your email or a Youtube channel or subscribe to a newsletter, that would mean that we have successfully showed the power of opal to our customers. So, I decided to have a homepage, and the homepage is going to render out a bunch of videos that are recorded by the team, by the opal team.

15:32:18
Okay, and this is a much better, less aggressive approach to speak to our customers. Because first, they get to see the power and impact that opal makes, because they themselves are learning how to use Opal. By just watching this video, cuz, we can have like a tutorial in here, teaching them how to use Opal. Or, we can also showcase new features. So, you could essentially have a section here called new features.

15:32:43
And you could share the new videos down here, right? This brings infinite possibilities. And also, you're able to build something, a little more interactive, right? Its, not just, hey, heres an email, take a look at it. This is a new feature go by, right Nobody cares. We want to build a relationship with customers. And what better way for the CEO to literally take a video and say, hey, this is me using the software.

15:33:08
I just want to show you the power of opal. And, I just want to send a message across to teach you how to use it. That would make a big difference. And we need to make this work inside our application. But there is a problem. Sure. We can go ahead and just create a video. And then we can store all of those inside a separate table, inside our database.

15:33:29
And we can render out that data on the homepage. We can do that, of course, but that brings a lot of restriction to what we can show on this page. First, we would need to either build a full front end, right? That means we would have to have a whole different page, or like, sort of like a dashboard, like an admin dashboard, to give access to different entries, right?

15:33:53
We can have different entries in this table. And the user or the admin would have to go in there and populate it. But now, essentially, were creating a whole different application. So, we would need to build a whole team to essentially handle this aspect, which is our admin dashboard. Because our other dev team is going to be focusing on building the product, which is our, which is basically our primary source of income.

15:34:16
And were also going to need to make this admin dashboard secure. That means, authentication is going to need to be strict. Were going to need to test it. Were essentially, pushing ourself back, probably 2 3 months, just putting in time and effort into something thats not a direct return on our investment.

15:34:34
And if you ask me, ID, rather have my team focus on building a stronger product, delivering a powerful message, and improving the user experience, providing more features. And in turn, you know, increasing the lifetime value of my customer, than just creating something that doesnt do anything. And theres a lot more things that were going to need to do in order to manage this data.

15:34:56
And the other thing is, is the other option is the user can just, I mean, our, one of our admins can go directly into the database, and populate the database itself. But that, in itself just doesnt sound like a good solution, or something that can be scalable.

15:35:10
What if you have a content marketing team, or someone that knows how to manage the content on your website, you would also want to give them access to that portal, or to that admin portal, so that they can go directly in there, and change whatever, DAT, the whatever data they want, and the data will automatically populate on the front end, I'm, sure you guys know what I'm talking about.

15:35:33
But this is CMS, which is a content management system that can essentially help us manage data in a user interface, and also populate the data. On the front end, that means its sort of like a, like, a no code solution. But that brings up another problem. If we need to render this stuff on our web application, were going to need to connect the CMS itself into our application.

15:35:59
And usually, this is a restriction with most CMS providers. And, what I mean by that is usually what you find online is they give you access to a website hosting service, or some sort of, a web builder or something like that, where you cannot extract this feature in itself, and use it inside your web application. And thats when Wix Studio comes in. So, wick Studio is also supporting this video.

15:36:24
So, thats why I want to give them all the support by, by showcasing their amazing CMS features. So, with the help of Wick, studio, were going to get access to a CMS feature. That is standalone. That means we dont, have to leverage their web pages, right? We can use our own web application, because we get access to the Wix data API.

15:36:46
And because were getting access to this, we can essentially communicate with their CMS, but we can also make queries, we can filter and sort data the way we like. And since were already powering up stuff with AI, we can also use this feature, and we can connect it with AI and get much more tailored responses. And IVE also taken a look at other options out there for CMS.

15:37:08
And Wick studio does a pretty good job, because other CMS providers, you're going to need to upgrade in order to get maybe 5000 or even 10000 or even 50000 items. But Wick studio can get you up to 100000 CMS items. Thats a lot of data. And we can, we can pretty much render every, every single page inside Opal, if you were just using Wick studio CMS offer, right?

15:37:32
And, yeah, guys, they also have plans that have unlimited bandwidth. So you can pretty much handle all the traffic that comes into your CS. And you probably dont have to care about scaling and stuff like that as well. And again, wick studio offers so many more features, of course. But another great feature is you can connect all of your Wix applications into your web application as well, right?

15:37:55
So, for example, there is something called Wix app collections inside the CMS. And this is essentially like a database that, you know, gets added to your site, or to your, to your app, where you can essentially get Wix applications inside that, right, so, an example is Wick stores, which basically come with product collection. So, you can essentially create a product store, and you can put that on your website, right?

15:38:20
And another example would be Wix bookings. So, essentially, you are getting access to all these applications that you can leverage using this API. Another great use case of WixS, CMS is what if you are using a custom form, wick Studio also has a custom form offering, that means, with the power of custom forms, you can leverage that and embed it directly into your site.

15:38:45
So, you can capture user information, and you can store it inside CMS items, and you can give access to your team. So, they can essentially probably do email marketing. Imagine this, right? Imag, imagine if clients signed up, and instead of you sending an annoying email marketing campaign, your, you had someone thats in charge of, you know, client relations, and they send an opal video to every customer. Thats crazy, right? Thats, so nice.

15:39:12
No ones ever doing that. So, we will be leveraging Wick Studio to build out this section inside our homepage. This is going to give us the ability to launch campaigns, introduce new features, or even have an onboarding experience to teach, teach our customers how to use Opal.

15:39:29
And the best and most important part is we can outsource all of this work to another member of our team, who gets access to a beautiful dashboard, and a beautiful CMS UI, right, that comes from Wick studio, and they can just go in there, change all the data or launch new campaigns. And thats going to instantly update our homepage. Okay, so lets get started. All right, guys, now go ahead and scroll to the description.

15:39:54
You're going to find a link called Wix studio dashboard. Okay, and this is going to take you directly into our dashboard, which is the workspace dashboard, not the website dashboard. Okay, then you're going to go ahead and click on, create new site, and click on studio project. Okay, studio blank, project. And thats going to spin up a project for us. Lets. So, lets just give that a second. Okay, now that is completed.

15:40:19
We can go ahead and instantiate CMS items inside our project. Now, the cool part is you can use the website, and also render the CMS items on that. Or you can use the power of the Javascript SDK. And you can essentially, you know, access the Wix data directly in your code. Okay, so first thing, click right here, and then click on add CMS items. And thats going to add CMS into this project.

15:40:46
And once this is done, just like that, you can go ahead and close this out. And you can click on Dashboard, if you like, and ILL show you where you can go to essentially access your CMS items. So, down here, you're going to find a link called CMS. Okay, you can click on this, and you can basically start creating your CMS items. But, I also want to show you another documentation page.

15:41:12
So, you can read more on this, or you can follow along with us. Okay, so you can quickly search up, gohe, headless on Wick studio, documentation. And you're going to find a link to this documentation page. And you can click on this tutor tutorial called Javascript, SDK tutorials. And then click on data. Quick, start. This is what we need to essentially set up to set up Wick studio, inside our application.

15:41:38
Okay, so the first thing I'm going to do is go back to our CMS items. All right, right here. And, my website is essentially called my site number six. So, you can change it if you want. I'm just going to keep it like this. And I'm going to create a collection Next, click on, start from scratch, click on next. And the name of this collection is web prodigies, opal videos. Okay.

15:42:03
And you want to copy that. Or let me just make it short. I'm just going to call it opal. Dvideos. Okay, like this. And im going to copy this. And next, I'm going to click on a single item. Okay, how many items do you want to store in your collection? Well, actually were going to have multiple items. And you cant change the number of items.

15:42:24
Okay, so lets just click on multiple items, and then click on. Create. And thats going to spin up, sort of like a table structure for us. Okay, now, lets go ahead and close this. And as you can see, this is going to be the title, and were also going to need an ID field. Okay. So, what im going to do is I'm actually going to just delete this. CU.

15:42:45
We dont need a title, or I can just rename this like this, and rename it to ID. Okay. Wheres the field name? There we go. So, ID, like this. And thats, pretty much it. Now, there also is an ID field, but thats only a number. And what we want is essentially to host, not the video, even then you.

15:43:07
I mean, even though you can, you can actually do that in here, but we want to just store the ID in here, because were using opal itself, right? So were just going to have this one field, which is ID. And we can create multiple, you know, collections or whatever you want to call that, you can essentially create multiple entries, right Thats pretty much it.

15:43:25
So, now lets go back to the documentation, and im going to open up my terminal. I'm going to open another tab right here. And first thing is, im going to install these two packages. So im going to say, BUN, add, copy this one, wix SDK. And I also need the other one. So, im going to copy this one as well. So, im going to say, BUN, add Wix data.

15:43:48
And thats going to install the two packages that we need. Okay, for using npm pretty much the same thing. Then we are using Javascript. So, we dont have to pretty much do anything else. But, I mean, were using React. So, we dont have to install React, of course.

15:44:03
And we also, im not sure if were going to need the JS cookie, let me just make sure, because it looks like, if you want to handle session cookies, you're going to need to use it. So, let me just take a quick look. Okay, lets just go ahead and install it. Okay, we might need it. So, bun ADJS cookie. All right. Awesome. And now you can go ahead and create a collection.

15:44:24
And you can select multiple items, pretty much, much the same exact thing, and you can add the field, or pretty much whatever you want. Okay, awesome. So, the next thing im going to do is im going to go back into my dashboard, and I'm also going to keep my opal dashboard, ready to go. And all we have to do now is populate these with different video IDs.

15:44:45
Okay, now, you can go to a whole different level. And you can essentially use an extraction tool, or a helper function to basically extract the URL, right You can exract the ID from the URL. And you can do whatever you want. But we are just going to make it easier, just for now, and were just going to copy this ID from the URL itself.

15:45:07
Okay, so, once this is done, lets go back into our CMS collection. And I'm, just going to paste it in here. So, im going to create its, saying, add a field. So, lets go ahead and add. Actually, we dont have to add a field, we have to add an item, right? And I'm going to go ahead and add this right here and click on, save. All right. Right. Awesome. There we go.

15:45:28
We first, we just created our first CMS item. Okay, now we can go into our code and pretty much render that route. So, open up the folder structure. And you want to scroll up, actually, I'm going to shrink everything. And then I'm going to open up the components, sorry, app folder, dashboard, workspace, ID. And inside this, I'm going to create a homepage and lets also create a page. TSX.

15:45:52
And essentially, in here, we can render out whatever we need to. So lets go ahead and return a component. And I'm going to call this component home in the same page. And this is not going to need any props. But, for now, I'm, just going to keep this in here.

15:46:05
And the first thing is, were going to need some helper functions, or helper actions, that are essentially going to help us get the Wix content, and all the data that we pretty much need to render inside this page, and were going to use some more cooler tools to render more data in here. But, for now, were going to just use this one, right, so, lets just finish this part, which is const videos equal await.

15:46:29
Get Wix content, and this is a server action that we need to create. And im also going to change this to an async component. And lets go ahead and open up the folder structure, and scroll up into actions. And you can create a new file, but im just going to put it inside the workspace action right here. So, im going to say, export const, sorry, export const get Wix content.

15:46:54
And this is going to have a tri catch block inside here. And the first thing is, were going to need to create a Wix clients. Okay, so lets go ahead and say, create client, but this create client actually comes from Wix SDK. So, im going to scroll up top, and im going to import the following. So, im going to say, create client and OAT strategy, and were going to import those from Wix SDK.

15:47:20
And down in here were going to say, const my Wix clients equals to create clients were going to invoke it, and were going to need to pass in the modules, and in here were going to need to pass in something called items. And these items come in from the Wix data. Okay, the package we installed, so lets scroll up top and were going to say import items from Wixs data.

15:47:45
And now lets scroll all the way back down. And lets pass in items in here. Okay, awesome. So, now that we have this, we also need to pass in the OOT strategy. So, im going to say, AU, in here. And this is going to be O O strategy were going to invoke this. And in here were going to pass in the client ID.

15:48:05
Now, this is going to be an OOTH key that were going to get from our dashboard. So, lets go ahead and grab that key. So, im going to go back into this documentation. And in here, they show a page called headless settings. Okay, so you can find the OOTH app, client ID inside the projects setting. So, im going to click on headless settings and let it take us to this page.

15:48:29
Okay, so we see the, my site six, I'm going to click on this site, and its going to take me into our dashboard and inside settings. I can essentially create these API keys, but what we need is not this API key, actually, we just need the head less client, because it says, create a client to connect to external interface via, via the OO app, right?

15:48:51
And use client IDs and install SDks to authenticate your visitors and whatever. So, I'm going to go ahead and click on, create new client. And it looks like it needs an oath name. I'm, just going to call it opal. Go ahead and create the new client. And hopefully, that gives us an ID. Okay, there we go. We have an ID in here. Lets go ahead and copy this ID.

15:49:14
And im not going to show my environment file, because remember, I had a bunch of important values in there, but you're just going to create a value like this. I'm going to say process, environment, env. Wix, o Oore key. Thats it. Okay. And set this as string. And go ahead and add this value. Add this value right here to this key. Inside your do environment file. And, well, go from there. Okay, there we go.

15:49:45
And im also going to go ahead and shut down the server and say, BUN, runeV all over again. And you also want to refresh, guys, thats something that I want to let you know as well, when you're restarting, refresh the browser, and then do this. Okay, cuz. If it does have any cache or any data, its going to use the same data, we dont want that. So, go ahead and reload, and then reload once more.

15:50:08
Okay, so now that we have that, we can go ahead and proceed, right here. So, let me shrink this, so we can see. And down here, im going to say, const videos equal to awaits my Wix clients, which is the client we just created up here, and were going to say, were going to, in actually, we dont, need to invoke this.

15:50:27
We have to say, items, dot query data items, and we need to pass in the data collection ID. Okay, so lets go ahead and find that as well. So, I think this is essentially the name, right? So, im going to add the data collection ID in here, and set it to Opal videos. And if you dont know where im getting that from, its essentially, the CMS title itself.

15:50:55
Okay, I think, I think this should be it. Well, see how it goes. But I think that should be fine. And im also going to change this to an async component. Because were using a weit in here. And it looks like, okay, we need to first invoke this, right? So were using query data items on this collection. And we also need to say doind and invoke this as well.

15:51:14
Okay, now, once this is done, were going to say const video IDs equal to videos. Sorry, this is video IDs equal to videos, do items, do items. Map. And for each of them, were Essenti, essentially going to return data, or, sorry, its v. Dat. So v data tile. Okay, and I dont think we have this in here. So, let me go ahead and change this to the following.

15:51:49
So, what im going to do here is im going to say, do ID, and now, im also going to add this condition right here. So, it doesnt scream at me. And once this is done, we can go ahead and find this video inside our database. So, I'm going to say, const video is equal to await client, video. Find many, and were going to find where the ID is like the following.

15:52:20
So, its in the videos, ID. Okay, and once we get this, were going to select the following Information were going to select the ID, were going to set this to true. Were going to select created at, were going to set this to true as well, were going to get the title, and were going to set this to true. The source, set this to true. Processing, why is it not doing that for me.

15:52:47
Okay, we need processing the workspace, ID, set these to true as well, and then were going to also need the user data. So im going to say user, but from that, were going to select first name, last name, and image. And then we also need the folder. So down here were going to say folder, select, ID, and the name.

15:53:06
Okay, and after this, down here, if everything was successful, were going to say a video, and the videos length is greater than zero, then were going to return 200, if not, well, return 400, meaning something went wrong, okay, 44. And then down here, we can also return 400. So, this is essentially saying that theres no data. We could not find this video. Thats why its 404? Okay, awesome.

15:53:30
Now, lets go back and lets import the get Wix content, and lets try to render out this component. So, im going to click on the homepage. And okay, its showing me a beautiful 404. Let me see whats going on. So, slome does not exist. Why is that the case? Let me take a quick look. Guys, just give me a second. Okay, so it looks like I named this file, pages, TS XX.

15:53:56
And, you guys know, I am very fond of making spelling errors. So, lets go ahead and shrink this once more and lets refresh the page. And there we go. We can see some data in here. Awesome. All right, guys. So, it looks like I made a mismatch in the title name, right? And not sure why that error happened. I think its, because the ID of this field is stored as title, right?

15:54:25
Because right now, essentially, what were doing is we are saying, ID, and this. Do, ID does not exist on this data. In. Instead, this is renamed to title right here. Okay, so, we need to essentially just change this to title. Okay, and now, thats going to give us some data, lets go ahead and see, there we go, were getting data. Okay, so that was the error there.

15:54:47
And I figured that out, because I was printing the error out. And now lets go back into this page. And just like that, now, we have the exact video that we need to render. So, I'm going to go ahead and give this a class name. I'm going to say, grid of grid columns 1, Lg. Grid, callums 2, and gap of five. And inside this, I'm going to say the following. So, I'm going to say videos.

15:55:13
Also, I change this to videos because its multiple, right? And im going to say videos status. If this is equal to 200, then were going to do something in here, or, well, do something else. So, if this is true, were going to map over the videos data, and were going to say, map. Okay, map. And for each of this, were going to return the following.

15:55:35
So, im going to say, video in here, and im going to return our video card component. So, video card from global components. Okay. And now, what seems to be the issue here, videos DAT videos is possibly undefined. Okay, so, in here, just put a question mark like this. And in inside this, we now have to pass in the props. So, let me quickly just bring this onto a next onto the next line.

15:56:02
And im going to pass in first, the key, which is equal to video ID. And then we also need everything else thats inside this. So, I'm going to say, dot video, like this. And then we also need the workspace ID, which is going to be the video workspace ID. Okay. So, what seems to be the problem in here, string and null is not assignable to type string type. Null is not assignable to type string H.

15:56:33
Okay. So, lets just do this. And that should solve this problem. Okay, awesome. So, what seems to be the problem in here, it looks like you're importing a component that needs use effect. It only works in a client component, but none of its parents are marked as a client component. Interesting. But video card, HM. Let me refresh This, let me just see where this is coming from. All right, guys.

15:57:01
So the problem is stemming from our video card component. So, this component can, is essentially rendering out an element called card menu. But this card menu is passing down some elements, which are client based components, right? And we cant, we cant pass a callback function down. So, let me show you what I mean by that.

15:57:24
So, if I change this to a used client component, you're going to see another error that says button, which is probably in one of these elements somewhere here. It essentially is saying, you cant, pass down something called, you know, on, copy clipboard, because you need interactivity, right? So, what we need to do is go back to our video card component and were going to need to change this to a use client component.

15:57:51
And thats going to pretty much solve our problem. Now, if you think this is going to convert this to client side rendering, and its going to take time to load, or something like that, its not, and the reason is because we are technically passing in data on the first, paint, the first load, right? This is essentially called prerendering on the server.

15:58:12
Client components are also prerendered on the server, with the data thats being passed in here, okay. And then when it comes to the client, essentially, it has holds, which it will fill with all the data that it has. Thats pretty much, okay. So, as you can see, we are now rendering all of these components on the page.

15:58:31
So, ID, like for you to go ahead and take a moment to just use your application and create four videos that teach your users how to use Opal. Okay, pause this video and take, you dont need to take too much time. Just take like 2 minutes, create a couple videos, right?

15:58:48
Or maybe a couple seconds just as a practice, or if you want, and you're, genuinely serious about launching your SAS, you can just create a couple videos here, and just teach users how to use Opal. And then we can move on to the next stage. As we all know, the driving source for any SAS is revenue. And as entrepreneurs, we need to do everything in our path to increase conversions on our platform.

15:59:14
And today were going to be using a blazing fast cloud hosting platform Thats going to help us accomplish this. Cloudways is a managed cloud hosting platform for Wordpress websites and applications. And they make managing these services a total breeze. So, how it works is cloudways is kind of like the person in between the servers on Google, amazon, digital, ocean, linode, and Vulture.

15:59:43
And, they simplify the entire process from start to finish, while also providing you with a ton of amazing features. They set up everything for you within your dashboard, so that you can control your project with just one single click.

15:59:57
All you have to do is click on add server in the dashboard, select the type of application, lets say Wordpress, set the project name, and the details, select the type of server you would like, and if needed, set the server size and you're done. One of the standout features of Cloudways is the Cloudflare enterprise CDN. This advanced content delivery network is specifically designed for enterprise users, delivering exceptional performance improvements compared to tradition. Additional CDN.

16:00:26
By leveraging a reserved network. The Cloudflare enterprise CDN, ensures faster global content delivery, reduced latency, quick loading times, and substantial bandwidth cost savings. They also offer 247 live chat assistance by a growing team of highly trained experts. You can also add premium support as an addon. And with this, you and your team can directly call and speak to a senior support engineer At any time.

16:00:57
You can troubleshoot application level issues, including plugin or theme troubleshooting, investigating any server errors or optimizing performance, right. From the dashboard, you also get a free SSL installation with just a single click. This SSL service ensures that your website is equipped with a trusted certificate, fulfilling all HTTPS requirements, without any additional costs. In collaboration with their technology partner, malare, cloudways provides bot protection for your Wordpress website.

16:01:30
This feature safeguards your site from malicious traffic in bots, brute force, login attacks, dos attacks, and many more. And heres, a really cool feature. As your Wordpress website or application grows, you need to expand on resources. And Cloudways enables seamless vertical scaling of your servers with just a single click. Cloudways also allows you to create staging environments or backups with their application and server cloning capabilities, with just one click.

16:02:02
You can clone entire servers or make copies of individual sites completely with their files and the databases, and also get a new staging URL. This is great, because you can reuse logic for different Wordpress sites, and you dont have to write hundreds of lines of code. So, if you already have a Wordpress site, hosted on a different provider, cloudways offers a free Wordpress, migrator, plugin, and even better, cloudways is completely free to get started today.

16:02:32
And when you're, ready to get access to such amazing features, you can use this code at checkout to get $20 worth of credits of free hosting. Awesome. Go ahead and scroll to the description. You're going to find my link. And if you use my link, you can essentially grab the $20 worth of free hosting credits. Okay, so thank you so much Cloudways for making this possible for the prodigies community and lets get started.

16:02:59
So, as you all know, you can use Cloudways to host your Wordpress website, but I also want to show you something where you can essentially use Cloudways and Wordpress as the, as a headless EMS for our application. So, if you want to, also, you know, bring in data from your Cloudways dashboard, you can do that.

16:03:19
So, if you have an application in Cloudways, if you have a Wordpress site, you can use a plugin and also fetch that data, and load it into Opal as well. I'm going to show you how you can do that. And the first thing we want to do is go ahead and log in. So, go ahead, create a free account, its completely free to get started. And you dont even have to put your credit card.

16:03:39
So, IVE already created an account. So, I'm going to go into that account. Make sure youll log in, and then, well, proceed from there. So, go ahead, open up this nav bar. And you're, going to scroll down in here and click on my projects. Okay, now go ahead and create a project inside this, and go ahead and click on, create project. And once thats done, it should take you into a page that looks like this.

16:04:02
So, go ahead and click on the project itself. And, you see, I already have the application, but for you, you're not going to see this, of course. So, what you would want to do is create an application inside this. So, first, go to my servers right here, click on my servers. And then you want to click on Add Server, and from the dropdown were going to select Wordpress, and you can give it a name.

16:04:25
I'm going to call it Opal Production, like this. And, I'm just going to call this Opal server. And you can select the project directly from here. Okay, so, you dont even have to move it into that specific folder. And thats it. Now, you get to pick your server. So, I'm, just going to leave it at Digital Ocean. This is the server size. So, you can essentially scale, depending on, you know, how much traffic you anticipate.

16:04:48
And then you can go ahead and click on launch. Now, now, this is doing a whole bunch of stuff on digital Ocean. So, so, we need to give it at least 7 minutes to pretty much set up everything. So, lets just give it the time it needs to set up the server. And then, well, get started. Okay, now, my server is completed. I'm going to go ahead and click on the server itself.

16:05:08
And its going to take me into the server dashboard, and lets also verify that our application is created in here as well. Okay, as you can see, if you click on this icon, it shows the application that is installed on the server. Next, go ahead and open up a new tab. And you want to type in headless CMS cloudways. Okay, and go ahead and hit enter. And its going to take you to.

16:05:34
Let me quickly find that, okay, right here. So, it says headless Wordpress using React for a CMS web app. So, im going to click on that. And its going to take me to this blog post. Next, you're going to scroll down here to step number two, which is down here, and you're going to click on this zip file, okay, were going to need this plugin. So, go ahead and download this plugin.

16:05:57
Okay, so, it took me to the Github page. I thought it was going to instantly download something, but I totally forgot. Its going to take you into a repository. You want to click on this green button, and click on, download, zip. And then just go ahead and click allow if you are on Mac, and that should install our plugin.

16:06:13
Okay, next, you want to go back into your dashboard, and you want to click on my applications and go ahead and click on the opal production app that we just created, its going to take you into another dashboard, essentially. And now, you want to scroll down here, and you see we have the admin panel, right This is going to have a URL. And we need to essentially open this dashboard again.

16:06:37
So, go ahead, click on this dashboard. And im not going to show you the other page, but you just have to put a username and password, which is your credentials, and you should be good to go. And if you dont know whats the username and password, it is right here. Get your username and your password. All right. Now, im going to go ahead and log in And, and not now.

16:06:56
And thats going to take you into our Wordpress dashboard. Now, go ahead and scroll down here, where you see plugins. You want to click on this, and click on, add new plugin. And then we need to essentially upload the plugin that we just installed. So, go ahead and drag and drop this in here. Or you can just import this plugin. And then, well, move on from there.

16:07:17
And just as a quick pointer, guys, you want to make sure the file that you're uploading is not a folder, but it is a dot zip file. Okay. Or its, not going to install its, going to say the link is invalid or something like that. Okay, so go ahead and do that. And you should see this page Next, I'm going to click on, activate plugin like this. And that should take you into this page.

16:07:40
All right, now, go ahead and click on plugins again. And you want to click on add new plugin. And you're going to look up custom post types. Okay, custom posts, type like this. And you're going to find another plugin in here. Go ahead and install this plugin as well. And make sure that its active. Awesome. And I'm just going to go ahead and activate this plugin as well.

16:08:02
And then you want to click on Addedit, post types, and I'm going to click on the first field. And I'm just going to call it test posts for now. And same thing in here as well. So, test posts, and for singular, were just going to call it test post. Next, you want to scroll all the way down to these options. And if you also want the author, you can select that as well.

16:08:27
You can pretty much grab whatever data you want from these posts. Okay, and lets go ahead and say, add post type. And now you're going to be able to find this, this new test post type right here. So, go ahead and click on this, right, its going to take you into a page like this. And then you can click on the add new post. And thats going to take you into the Wordpress editor.

16:08:50
And for the content of this post, im going to use chat. GBT. And with the help of the option and spacebar command on Mac, you can actually directly open chat. GBT. But I think you need to install and probably upgrade your, your Mac OS as well. Okay. But if you dont, have a Mac, thats totally fine. I'm just saying its a cool thing that I found out, right?

16:09:12
And essentially, I have a, a, a prompt that I'm just going to paste in here. And its just going to help us get all the data in markup. So, im going to say, give me this in markup. Okay. And, I'm just going to hit enter. And, thats going to generate something for me. All right, I'm going to copy everything. And im going to click right here, and just paste it for now.

16:09:33
Okay, it doesnt really matter. We just want some data to show up in the front end. And im sure you can, you can do a great job by making it look nice, and all that kind of stuff. All right. So, for now, just paste all the data you get in here and lets move on to our application.

16:09:46
All right, and one more thing really quick, guys, essentially, once you're done with this, you want to click on publish, post. Okay, and let me make sure that its showing the data correctly. All right, it looks like this is text, a paragraph. This is the title, okay, looks good. So, go ahead and click on, publish, its going to give you something in here. Just go ahead and publish once more.

16:10:10
And now you can also click on this link. And you can view your post. Okay, awesome. So, now, im going to click in here. And its going to take me back to our test posts. And as you can see, this one is now published. And good to go, now lets go back to our application. And I think I can still use Thunder Client to make this work.

16:10:32
Let me see, and let me just give it a shot and see what happens. Okay, so essentially, thunder kleine is just like postman, but this is something that IVe just found recently. And I think I already introduced it to you guys, right? But im not sure if I can make an API request to an external site. Im, not sure if it only works inside the codebase, lets just give it a shot.

16:10:51
Okay, so, go ahead and create a new request like this. And now, now, were going to need to get this, the URL that we have to make the get request to, or you can just get it from here, actually. So, if you go into your Wordpress dashboard, you can click on this link, just right, click it and say, copy link. I think this should work as well.

16:11:10
So, now, im going to go in here, and im going to paste this endpoint. And I need to add some values to this as well. So, in here were going to add WPjson, WP, and then I'm going to put, put another slash. And I need to add the title, which is test posts, right? So, test posts like this. All right, guys.

16:11:33
So, the problem here was this one right here, after WP, we want to say V2 and say slash, and then put test post. And now, if you go ahead and call the end points. Awesome. We are getting a 200 response with all of the posts, essentially. And we can render them inside our homepage. Okay, great job. Now, heres what you're going to do.

16:11:55
You're going to go into your environment file, and you're going to create a variable called cloudways. Poost. And you're going to store that value, which is that URL, that we just made a get endpoint, a get request to right were going to store that URL. Inside this key. Thats it. Okay. And now, I'm going to go back to the homepage, and lets also open up. Open up local host.

16:12:17
And for now, I'm just going to hide all of our video cards, so that we can see this clearly. And down here were going to need to now fetch all this data. So, I'm going to create another server action. This one is called const posts, and were going to say, await how to post. And im going to open up my folder structure.

16:12:37
Im going to go into workspaces and im going to scroll to the bottom, and im going to do the following. So, export, const. How to post equal async, and its an async arrow function were going to need Axos to make this work. So, were going to say, await Axios, doget, process, environment, cloudways, post as string.

16:12:57
Okay, the essentially the new environment variable that we just created, and if everything looks good, were going to return the title and the content to the front end. If not, well, just return a 400 error. Okay, so lets go back and quickly import the server action. And were going to render out a component called How to post. So, go ahead and open up your folder structure.

16:13:19
You want to go into global components, and you want to create a new folder in here, called how to post. And inside that, an index, TSX, sorry, this should be a file, looks like I created a folder. So, index, TSX, and I'm going to return a component like this, and just render this out. Next, I'm going to go back and quickly import the how to post component.

16:13:46
And now, I can go back into this and pretty much render all of my data. Okay, awesome. You can see it right there. So, first thing is, this is going to need the title and, and the HTML body, right? So, im going to, so im going to get two props here called title, and HTML. And im going to go ahead and also destructure these from our props.

16:14:05
And now, im going to need to render these elements out. So, im going to say div class name, flex, flex. D column gap, dy of 10 lg column, das span D2. Mt of 10. Okay, and inside this, were going to return, return H2. And thats going to have a class name of text. 5xL font, d bold, and were going to need to render the title in here. Okay, finally were going to have a div.

16:14:37
And this div is going to have the following class name. So, I'm, just going to go ahead and copy this. So you can pause the screen, essentially. Type. Okay, so if its greater than H2, then were going to say text 3. Xl.

16:14:49
And if not, if its, if its essentially greater than H2 here were going to say, margin, top of five were going to also give it margin, bottom of three, and then for paragraph, were essentially giving it text space. So were essentially setting certain type of elements itself, right Its called CSS normalize, and thats pretty much where you set a specific tag or a element like div or paragraph tag. And you reset the styling itself. Okay.

16:15:19
So, if this greater than symbol is essentially in CSs, like how we do H, and then we do something, right? Thats pretty much it. Okay, so were just resetting the styles. And now in here were going to say, parse. I'm going to invoke this. And this parse is going to come from a package called HTML react parser. Okay, its a very small package. So, lets go ahead and install that.

16:15:41
So, im going to quit the terminal. Okay. And im going to say BUN, add HTML, react parser. And thats going to give us this package. And now I can go ahead and in import our parser from here. And all I have to do is parse our HTML data. So, im going to say, parse HTML data like this, and lets also say BUN, run dev, and lets refresh the browser.

16:16:05
And I'm just going to set a default value in here, inside the parameter. Okay, that way, if we dont have anything, we dont have an error down here. Okay. Or you can also render this ones fine as well. I dont think this is a good practice anyway. So, yeah, you can do something like this. And now lets go back. And we need to pass in, are props.

16:16:25
I'm going to say title is post, title, and the content is the post content. Okay. And, thats pretty much it. So, if you have a Wordpress websites, and you want to make use and take advantage of the $20 worth of free hosting credits today, you can use the link down below. And Cloudways also has a simple plugin that can essentially help you move your Wordpress site and transfer directly into cloudways. Okay, and its very simple.

16:16:50
They have everything inside the dashboard. So, you dont, have to, you know, go, crazy, crazy. Trying to move your site. Okay, so yeah, thats pretty much That just wanted to show you the power of cloudways, because you can also bring your Wordpress site, and I use that also as a CMS for your application. Awesome. Lets proceed now. All right.

16:17:09
And now, for the next AI feature, this is our AI agent, which were going to call AIA. Sounds like a cool name. So, I'm, just going to call it AIA. And this AIA feature is essentially a chatot for viewers who are watching an opal video. They can ask questions. And the AI agent will respond accordingly with context of the video. That means it knows whats happening in the video. Okay, super, super cool feature.

16:17:38
Imagine this, right? Imagine, if I took this entire tutorial, this full course, and I plugged it into this AI agent, you would just have to ask it questions at any time you want. And it would answer every single thing, right? It can probably also tell you where it found it from whatever you instruct to. So, this is a powerful feature, especially for courses.

16:17:58
So, I thought this would be a great feature to have inside our application. And I want to show you how you can do it. I mean, the most important part is, were not going to spend a lot of time. That means we can do this in just a couple minutes. How cool is that? If you guys remember, we built something called Corina AI in the past, and Corina AI took us about 3 months to build.

16:18:19
Cuz. We built every single thing from scratch. And 3 months in a SAS is horrible. You're, not supposed to spend more than 2 weeks building an MVP. Okay. A feature should not take a lot of time if its, your MVP. Okay, so we have found a creative solution on how we can accomplish far more than Kina AI that does not take more than 15 to 20 minutes. How awesome is that, right?

16:18:44
Your users get to experience what it feels like to use AI automation, and stuff like that. And essentially, you get to know if they find it valuable. So, you can focus more on, you know, building the full feature itself, standalone inside your app in the future, if you need to. Okay, so essentially, how we can make this work is, were going to need to grab context from a video.

16:19:03
So, if we have a video right here, we need to figure out a way to connect this video into this AI agent. Okay, now, where do we plug in all of this video related data? Or where can it go? Its going to be really hard to take each of these and plug it into the AI, and then get data out of this. Instead, we have access, access to our transcript.

16:19:26
All we have to do is pass this transcript into a smart AI bot that can pretty much do every single thing for us. And to accomplish this, were going to need help from a third party tool. So, that way, we dont sit and waste 3 to four months building a AI chatbot, right? And, WED, also probably want more cooler features, right? We dont, just want only an AI that can respond.

16:19:50
You might want to build AI automations, or you might want to build SPE specific AI generated, maybe voice messages. Theres so many benefits of using a thirdparty tool. And the tool that well be using today is called voice flow. And voice flow is also the sponsor of this video. So, voice flow is essentially going to give us access to our AIA. And voice flow allows you to build workflows.

16:20:16
And in this workflow, you can use a automation like builder, where you can build different stages, different steps as to what you want the AI agent to perform. And its essentially, just going to follow that, right? Its, its, pretty straightforward, but its super powerful, because you can plug it into anything you want. You can build AI agents to respond to your customer support.

16:20:38
Or lets say, if you, if you're, building an application for an insurance company, you might need a couple of steps to file an insurance claim, right? You can use an AI chapot to handle all of this step by step. Okay, so voice flow is super cool. So, we will be using this tool to set up inside our application.

16:20:56
And at the moment, they have a generous free tier, which is amazing, because we get access to 50 knowledge based requests per agent, and 500 table rows. That means we can upload a lot of videos. Okay, so, lets go ahead and build a voice flow into our application. All right, so I just created an account using the link in the description. And that is my link again.

16:21:21
So, if you go ahead and click on that, its going to going to take you directly into this page. Okay, so its going to tell me to essentially create a workspace. And thats exactly what im going to do. I'm going to create a new workspace in here, and just call it web prodigies, like this. So, you are getting some templates that you can reuse. As you can see, we have a retail purchase web chat.

16:21:42
Super cool. And the support chat bot, this is already done for you, right? So, you could literally leverage this and use it inside your application. So, first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to click on new agent, and I'm, just going to call this opal, like this. And go ahead and get started.

16:21:58
And its saying, you can import knowledge base about your company by just providing the website, URL, but were going to go ahead and skip over this, because we are using the knowledge base in a slightly different way. Okay, so go ahead and skip this. And thats pretty much it. So, now, its going to take you into this, specific, into this specific project. Next, go ahead and click on the workflows.

16:22:20
And, you see, they already have some templates in here, but were going to create a new workflow in here. And, guys, you can see this, you can create a support ticket, in case a customer reaches out to you, or lets say, if they had a new feature request, this is really powerful, right? So, you can do a bunch of stuff, not just what were trying to accomplish.

16:22:40
I just want you to understand that, that theres so much more in voice flow. So, just take some time and research the tool, just see how you can leverage it in your SAS, because you're going to need a way to handle scenarios like this. And, you cant always be there to sit in type and text your customers, right You're going to need to automate all of these tasks.

16:22:58
And the best way to do it is with AI, go ahead and click on new workflow, up top here, and I'm going to say opal again, in here, and just go ahead and create this workflow. And now, its going to send you into a page that looks like this.

16:23:11
So, how this works is, when the user asks a question, the AI agent will essentially trigger this trigger function right, here, and this action will then fire all the other blocks that are attached in the sequence. Thats pretty much it. So, its, just like an automation builder, okay. And now that we have access to the users question, we can process this data in the way we like.

16:23:37
So, for example, lets say we were trying to build a chatot that can handle everything a user would ever need to communicate with us for, right. So, for example, refund requests. And we can probably categorize that into purchases and support, right? Then we can have feedback on the software. So, feature requests, and maybe support tickets for technical bugs. Right?

16:24:03
So, when the user essentially sends this question through the AI agent, we can then create a block in here, for example, something like AI response or logical, you know, responses as well. And based on the logic, which is, if it is a support ticket, or if it is, you know, customer care, whatever that is, we can fire up a whole different sequence. So, you can see how powerful this can get, right?

16:24:28
But for this specific scenario, all were doing is we need to first optimize the users question, right? Because they can pretty much ask anything they want, right? So were going to optimize that, and then were going to search the knowledge base. And if you dont know what a knowledge base is, it is essentially just a table, right? Think about it, like a table, and it stores all the data that you feed it, right?

16:24:50
And the cool part is, you can store data based on a URL as well. Okay. So, once thats done, its essentially going to grab all of that data that it found, and we can then create another block thats going to take the data and the question, right. And its going to send it into AI using prompt engineering, were going to create a really nice prompt, were going to pass it into that AI.

16:25:12
And the AI is essentially going to read all this data and generate a response that we can take and send over to our customer. Okay, thats pretty much it. And the other thing we need to keep in mind is, we also want to remember the sequences. That means we also want to remember the conversations that the AI and the customer had in, you know, previous, you know, engagements, right.

16:25:36
So, we also want to remember every single thing. Now, if you were to build all of this, this would really take a lot of time. So, this makes it really simple for us to create a chatbot like experience in our application. Okay, so go ahead and drag and drop. Or you can also click on these blocks right here. And the first thing that were going to need is something called the set AI.

16:25:57
Okay, so im going to go ahead and drag and drop this right here. And, the first thing I'm going to do is, I'm, just going to give this a label. So, I'm, just going to call this optimize. And we can also give the same label in here. So, I'm going to say, optimize question for the knowledge base, right? Awesome. And then make sure you click on data source AI model.

16:26:19
And for the prompt, I already have a prompt in here. This came from their templates. So, im going to go ahead and copy this and paste it in here. And guys, ill put this prompt inside the Discord channel. So, if you join the Discord, youll just pretty much have it in there, right?

16:26:35
When you join, okay, itll be probably inside the support chats, or in the general chat, or just ask the prodigies community, and theyll help you out. Okay, so I'm going to go ahead and pass in the generated question. I'm, sorry, the prompt right in here, and then we can apply this prompt to a specific variable. So, I'm going to call this the optimized question. So, essentially, its going to store that response inside this variable.

16:27:01
Okay, really, really cool stuff. And you can also create multiple prompts in here. So, you see, we just created one right here, right, I'm going to create another one like this. And its going to show up at the bottom. And now, I can pass a different prompt into this, and I can assign it a different variable.

16:27:18
So, im going to call I'm going to click on this, and im going to paste a prompt that I got from their template as well. And its essentially ill also read what it does, but its just prompts that essentially help the chat bots, okay. And were going to apply this to a specific variable called language. JSON. Okay, so please follow along with me. That way, you understand how to build these workflows.

16:27:44
And once this is done, you can click on preview, and you can give it, you know, some values in here, if youd like, and I mean, I'm just going to skip over this for now, and just click outside here. And that should still save that for us. Okay, awesome. Now, go ahead and also connect these blocks by dragging and connecting these cables together.

16:28:05
And the next thing were going to need to do is search the knowledge base. So lets go ahead, drag, and drop. And im going to search for knowledge base, which is under dev. So KB search. Okay, awesome. And now go ahead and rename this, I'm going to say, search knowledge base. And im going to create this question in here. Okay, now, this question is essentially the optimized question that we got from the first step.

16:28:31
So, im going to say, optimized question like this. So, you see, how were also passing variables between different blocks, right? Super cool stuff. And now, we want to save the chunks itself, which were getting from the knowledge base inside a variable. So im going to use the chunks variable and store that in here as well. And now, what if we could not find any path, or we could not find, find any data, right?

16:28:55
You can turn this on. And now, you can provide an, pretty much like an, an else statement, right? So its like a no block. So, in here, I'm just going to say, respond, if no info found, okay. And now, you can click on this block, and you can essentially tell it what to do.

16:29:13
But I'm, just, im not going to do it right now, because I just wanted to show you that you can also do that in there. Okay, so lets go ahead and now click on this. And I'm just going to turn this soft for now. And the next step is, were going to need to craft a response. And this action, or this block is called set AI. So, click on this AI response right here.

16:29:31
And you want to drag and drop the set AI block. And now, im going to change this to say craft response. Okay. And you can click on this. And now, im going to give it a label. So, just say craft response as well. What am I typing, craft response, okay. And make sure you click on the AI model. And same thing, guys. Now, im going to have a different prompt in here.

16:29:56
And im going to explain this prompt in more detail. And ill also go over the other one as well. But, this prompt is essentially just, you know, giving some guidelines, and how it should help the customer. So, you are an AI customer support bot helping a customer with questions. So, when communicating with guests, follow these guidelines.

16:30:16
Okay, but these are all just guidelines, like ensure the response strictly contains information from the trunks only, and is not your own version, right? Things like that, right? And the most important part is the input data. In here, the input data that werere passing in has the customers, questions, which means all the last occurrences or the utterances, right. And we also have the details from the chunks and the conversation history.

16:30:41
So, this is their last question. And here, we have the history of the customer, and the chatbot. So, its going to essentially know what happened before. And for, I think its 10 conversations that they had in the past, and itll essentially just use that as context. Okay. And you can also pass in languages.

16:31:01
So, ILL, go ahead and show you the other one as well, right, the other prompt, but before that lets go ahead and apply this to a variable. So, I'm going to call this KB response. Okay, and that should do it. You can go ahead and click outside, or you can click preview, and you can assign variables or values to that. But for now, I'm just going to go ahead and connect this.

16:31:21
And our final step right now is we need to give the output, right? So, go ahead and drag and drop, click on talk, and click on the message box. And in here, all we need to do is essentially, pass in this KB response, right Thats pretty much it. So, im going to click on this text field, and I'm going to say KB response. So we just passing in that variable, and thats pretty much it.

16:31:47
Okay, awesome. Now, just to show you what this prompt looks like, its pretty much the same thing, just saying, you know, gener generate a single question from their, you know, from their big question, if they ever asked anything, and were just telling it to format it, right Thats pretty much, it. So, focus solely on the aspect mentioned by the user. Do not include additional topics or comparisons, unless specifically requested.

16:32:15
So, this is how, you should, you know, write prompts, right, should be in great detail, and should give the AI enough information. And in here, same thing were just showing the input data. And the input data is the conversation history, and the most recent question that the user asked. Okay, and now, once you have done connecting everything, and also completing all of these steps, you can go ahead and click on the run button.

16:32:40
And you can test out this AI. Okay, so lets go ahead and give it a shot. So, im going to ask it, what is web prodigies Lets just give that a second and lets see what it lets. Just give that a second and lets see what it has to say. Okay, so it ran through all of our responses. And, as you can see, it has a detailed message printed out, right?

16:33:02
This is where you can get premium access to courses, mentorship, and stuff like that. And if you go back, all the way to this dashboard, and click on knowledge base. And in here, you can add a data source. So, you can add a URL, a sit map, or just a PDF file. I just added web Prodigy.com. And it automatically knows every single thing about the website.

16:33:22
Okay, so if you ever have questions on documentation guys, you can do this, right? Just copy nextJS, documentation, paste it in here. And you can ask questions yourself. Okay, how awesome is that? Im going to do that thing? Thats a cool idea. All right, cool. Awesome. So now lets, go ahead and use this workflow that we just created inside our project. Now, go ahead and open up your folder structure.

16:33:45
You want to scroll down to the bottom, inside your lips folder. And by the way, this is our web application version. Okay, click on voice, flow. Js. And in here were going to have a, A function, a helper function, thats going to help us inject a script. Okay, now, just for simplicity sake, I'm going to show you how to render the chapot on the website.

16:34:07
Okay, I want you to be a little more creative, and take the idea and the knowledge you're getting from this course, and figure out a way how to put it into either the dashboard or inside the activity panel. I think that would be really cool, right? You could have your own chat bots pretty much embedded inside that, right? So, I want you to think above and beyond, just this course.

16:34:28
But for simplicity sake, were going to render this out on the website. So, lets go ahead and create that helper function, thats going to help us load the script. So, I'm going to say, export, const load voice, flow agent. And, this is going to be equal to an arrow function, but were essentially going to create an IFfy in here. Okay, if you dont know what this is, you, you probably have to learn Javascript. Okay.

16:34:51
But anyway, I'm going to create a function like this. And this is going to help us create an execution context, and immediately U pretty much implement and get this script and inject it. Okay, so I'm going to put this into a bracket. And im going to invoke the function itself. Okay, this is what an if means its just an immediately invoked Javascript function. Okay, think about it that way.

16:35:16
And in here were going to get access to two parameters, which is the document, and some value. Okay, and in here first, were going to say var, V equal DC, create element. And inside this, we have to pass in T. And after that, were going to say, why is this not going up here? Okay, so, lets create another variable too called S.

16:35:39
And this one is going to be D, get elements by tag name, and were going to pass in T again, and were going to get the first value from here. Okay. And now, once this is done, were going to say, V dot onload. And lets change this to onload. This is lowercase. All right, guys. Its equal to another function. And this function is going to do the following.

16:36:03
So inside this were essentially going to load our component. So were going to say, window, voic, flow, chat, load, you want to invoke that. And inside this, were going to pass in verify, and this verify is just a property, its not from crypto. I dont know why its from crypto. So, were going to say, verify. And inside this, we have to pass in a project ID. So, I'm going to say project ID like this.

16:36:30
And this is equal to an environment variable that were yet to, of course, create. But this environment variable is called next public voice flow key. So I'm going to say processenv, doPU, voiceflow key. Okay. And ILL show you where to get that. Just give me a second. Lets just complete this first. And then the URL that were going to send this to is essentially the following, which is h, CDPS. GEN, runtime, flow.com.

16:36:57
And after this were going to pass in another property called version ID. So, I'm going to say version ID and set it to production. And guys, please do not make any errors, because this is a Javascript file. You're not getting Typescript intelligence. Okay, and after this, we need another, another variable actually were adding the source property to the V object to this element.

16:37:19
So, you're going to say, V, source equal to HTTPS, CDN, VO, flow.com, widget bundle, MJS. Okay. And next, the type of this, the script, essentially, or the type of this element is Javascript. Okay, so Textjavascript, and then were going to say S parent node. So this element, parent node, insert before V, and were going to pass in this value in here as well.

16:37:47
Okay, now, inside this, we have to, when were invoking it, we have to pass in the document. So, essentially were giving access to, were passing the values that directly get passed in here. So, this, like I said, is document. And this is an element were trying to find. So were going to need to create the script and the script, I think, actually the script is coming from them. I dont think its ours.

16:38:09
But the element is essentially going to have a tag name called script. Okay. So, were going to say document and were going to pass in script, like this. All right, so this is how were invoking it. And passing this data inside this next, you want to scroll up top right in here. And you're, going to find something called workspace ID. Lets go ahead and shrink this. Actually, we dont need that one. We need the website.

16:38:34
And inside this, you're going to find the page. TSX. So, inside here, which is our home, we only have the landing page, and we have this main page right here, right? We really did not create anything yet. So, lets go ahead and say voice flow. Oh, why cant I type? Okay, voice flow agent. And this is a new component that we need to create. Okay, so im going to copy this component.

16:38:59
And im going to open up my folder structure. So, im going to say voice flow inside the components. So, inside global components, you can say voice flow. And inside that, an index, tsX, and lets go ahead and return a component. And I'm, just going to call it voice flow agent. Okay, now, inside this were going to need the use effect. Thats essentially going to help us mount this component.

16:39:22
So, im just going to return, return a react fragment For, I mean, for now, I mean, you can return nothing if you want. It doesnt matter, but I'm just going to return a fragment. And im going to create a use effect. So, use effect, invoke this. And inside this use effect, were going to pass in our load function. Now, this needs to be use client, because were using use effect.

16:39:42
So lets go ahead and do that as well. And inside this were going to invoke our load voice flow. Okay. Our voice flow agent, for some reason is not being exported or did we exported? Let me take a quick look. So, inside our libs file, right here, we are exporting it. Okay. Not sure why its not letting us do that. But I'm, just going to go ahead and do it manually.

16:40:02
So, I'm going to say, import voiceflow agent from lib at lib. Voiceflow. Okay, just like this. And now, we can invoke our voice flow agent, which is load, voice flow agent. And that should do the job. Okay, so now were mounting that file were injecting it. And thats pretty much it. Okay, theres still more to do, though. Just keep follow through. Just just keep following through with us.

16:40:28
Because we have to also create the, the routes that can listen to essentially, when were making the changes from our express server, right? Because we want to import and send all the data directly to the trans with the transcript directly to an endpoint. So, thats another thing we need to create as well. And another thing we need to do is we have to create that script tag, right?

16:40:48
Because if we dont, its, not going to be able to find that element when its trying to load. So, so, first thing is, were going to go into the app folder. Okay, right here. And were going to create a route. But this is using the underscore and were going to call it scripts. Okay. And inside that, well, create a voice flow. JS file. And, this is going to export a variable called voice flow agent.

16:41:14
I keep typing, agency. IVE been doing too much agency stuff lately, I think. Anyway, so, voice flow, agent, and inside this, were going to return a script tag. Okay, so. Return script, but this script comes from next script. Okay. And inside this first is, we can pass the type. So, I'm going to say type text, javascript like this. And inside this, were going to go ahead and pass in a function.

16:41:43
Okay, and this is pretty much the exact function that we had in our libs folder. But, in here were essentially going to do the following. So, just follow through with me. Okay, were going to need to create another IFfy in here. Okay, so, I'm going to say function and I'm going to wrap this inside this, and then invoke it. Okay, and this is going to have a function body. So, lets grab that as well.

16:42:06
So, again, were going to need to essentially insert this element right here. Okay, so I'm going to say D and T. So, I can pass in these values. You can pretty much copy the last, you know, the, the function we just created and paste it in here, guys, that works as well. Let me go ahead and do that. Okay, you can also pause the screen and type if you want to learn.

16:42:28
But im going to go ahead and copy and paste it in here. All right, guys, now, we need to populate a few values, right Inside our environment file. The first one is the voice flow API key, and this API key can be found from right here. Okay, so click on this, copy the key, and paste it in here as well. And then you're going to have some more options, which is the voice flow, knowledgebase, API.

16:42:51
And thats a endpoint. So, you want to just go ahead and type this. So, pause the video, and please type this out. And then were going to need the next public voice flow key. Okay, this is essentially our project ID or a project key. But, the way to get it is actually through this, and I totally forgot, you can grab it right from here. Okay, so, im going to grab this.

16:43:11
And im going to paste that in here as well. And now, we can reuse this variable anywhere we want. So, lets go back to our code. And this snippet, guys, the snippet that we created in the script is essentially the same thing that you see right here. Okay. So, I'm going to copy this project ID. You can use the environment variable. But im not sure if this component is going to get access to that.

16:43:32
But, I mean, it should, I dont know why, but just for safety, I dont want anything to break right now. So, I'm, just going to go ahead and paste this ID. Okay, so you can go ahead and do the same thing, which is exactly what theyre telling us to do. All right. Awesome. Now, I want to go into my page, tsX, which is the website, and im going to go ahead and import ort this component.

16:43:54
Now, an important step to keep in mind is you have to be in production for this to work. Okay, as you can see, they literally say it, I think they tell it in the documentation as well, which is, you would have to be in production. And only then can you access the Chatot, right? There you go. You need to launch the production. Okay.

16:44:13
So if you dont, you're not going to be able to use this, and it makes sense, everything just has to be more secure. All right. Now, I want to show you how this can work. And first of all, we dont really need this voice flow file. I just realized that theres two ways to do it, right? You can render out a script tag like this.

16:44:31
And you can do the same process that we have in here. And you can render out this component on the, you know, the homepage, right? Thats one way of doing it. And the other way of doing it is, which, is, in my opinion, much more simple, which is inside the page, or just rendering the voice flow agent using the use effects, right? So, theres two different approaches.

16:44:51
The other one is, if you're, using this method, right Just render out this component. Thats pretty much it. So, both technically do the same thing, because here were creating a script tag and were essentially, you know, creating an, an immediately invoked function and then were passing in variables in here, right? So its still going to do the exact same thing. So, because we dont need this in here. Sorry, sorry about the confusion.

16:45:14
I'm just going to go ahead and delete this folder. Okay, its not important. We just need this main file, which is the voice flow component itself. And thats going to essentially help us render. Now go back to your page. TsX, and just make sure you're importing the right components. Okay? Its from the global component, which has the use effect. All right, awesome. All right, guys.

16:45:33
So turns out that it also renders in a local environment, which is really good. So if for some reason, you dont see this chatot, that means, you know, you need to be in production. Okay. But just keep in mind that its not going to, it probably is not going to access the knowledge base, because it is, is in developments.

16:45:54
Okay, I think the chatbot will render, but its still not going to get access to the knowledge base. Okay, so just keep that in mind. Now, after this, we also need to pass in the headers. So I'm going to say headers like this. And let me go ahead and complete this. Okay, headers. And we have to pass in accept. And the accept here is application. Sl JSON, the content type is application. JSON.

16:46:20
And the authorization is the API key that we just pasted inside our environment variables. Okay, next were going to create the data. So, were going to say data is going to be as follows. And, by the way, if you're wondering what were doing right here, were essentially creating the options, and the options that we can pass into the Axios request. Okay, thats why we have to do all the setup.

16:46:43
So, inside this, data, were going to need to create another data object. And this data object is going to get access to the Schema, which is the title, and the transcrip script. And then were going to need the name. So, lets go ahead and pass in the name as well. So, name is content tile, and then were going to need the items.

16:47:01
So, im going to say items are an array with the title, content, tile, transcript, body transcript. Okay. And those come up from here, essentially. All right. Now, once this is done, we can go ahead and create our Axos response. So let me figure out, which is the last line. Okay, right here, were going to say, const update knowledge base equal to Axos. Await Axios, do request, and were going to pass in those options.

16:47:30
Okay, now, if we got a 200 response back from this only, then are we going to return a 200 request? Okay, if not, well, respond back with a 400. Thats pretty much it. Okay, awesome. All right, guys with a heavy heart, I think, were coming to the end of this amazing course. And I hope you had fun, but theres one more thing that we need to complete, complete before we part ways.

16:47:55
It is the work in progress flag that I have right here, which is for the AI HOOK. Now, this is very, very simple. All you're doing, essentially, in here, is we are looking to see if the user is on a free plan, right? So, in this section right here, and if they are on a free plan, were going to give them an opportunity to try the AI feature.

16:48:18
Okay, so they can try these AI features, even on a free pre plan. And thats only going to happen once. So, if you look at our Prisma schema, lets go into Prisma, click on, schema, you're going to find something called trial. This trial is not for the users subscription. This trial here is to see if the user has tried the AI feature or not. Okay. And this can help you.

16:48:42
Even in email marketing, you can pretty much do whatever you want, you can upsell whatever, right? You guys know what to do. You guys are marketers, anyway. So, all you need to do is you would have to check if the user is first on a free plan, like this. Are they on a free plan If they are then have, they already tried the AI feature.

16:49:05
If no, then were going to give them the opportunity to try So, well, have a try button, that will allow them to essentially do the exact same thing that were pretty much doing inside our express server. Okay, now, I want to leave this up as a challenge for you.

16:49:21
Okay, because I have taught you so much IVe, given you all the knowledge that I have in building SAS applications, you need to now take action and build this out for yourself. Thats the only way for you to learn. Now, I'm also going to do, you know, most of the work and probably just, I'm probably going to give out the solution inside the discord anyway.

16:49:42
So, if you have any problems, and you dont know how to do this, for some reason you're confused, you can hop in the discord, but I want you to try. Okay, the answer will be in there, but I want you, you to try. Okay. Now, ILL also tell you what you need to do in here. The first thing is you need to do use mutation.

16:49:58
I'm not going to give you too much, you know, too much of a hint, right? Just just enough so you can at least try for yourself. So you're, going to need use mutation. And this is essentially going to give you access to mutate, right. And through that mutate, you can pass in the, the new data. And also, youll need a server action. Okay, so I'm going to say server action.

16:50:18
And this server action is to generate titles and description. Thats it. Very simple. Okay. And after this down here, you want to wire up the, if conditions depending on what you want to show in here. Okay, and if you want, you could also limit the AI feature to be performed, only when the user clicks generate in here, rather than automatically updating all the AI features in our express server.

16:50:46
Thats another thing you can do if you want. Okay, all right, guys, now, for deployment. Unfortunately, we are out of time. Okay, we cannot do it in this video, because this tutorial, this free course, is already more than 13 hours long, and Youtube is not going to allow me to upload such a big video. Okay, so fingers crossed. Hopefully I can get this out in one part.

16:51:04
But, what I will do is inside the Discord, im going to record the deployment section, or our team members will record the deployment section. And well, post it in there. Okay, you guys can just go ahead and grab it, its completely free. If you join the Discord, you can also get support from our AI chatbot. So, if you ever get stuck, you can get 247 support and the, the community is amazing.

16:51:23
Its all SAS developers and business owners, you're going to get a ton of support. And thats pretty much it. And once you're done with that, you are done with building Opal. I hope you had fun building this entire project. This was one of the most challenging projects because we built three different type of applications. I mean, guys, look at the date I have been, I have, IVE, literally been recording for the past 2 weeks.

16:51:47
And my intentions here are very clear. All I want to do is give away all the value that people charge thousands of dollars for completely for free. Because I truly believe that we need more SAS developers in this world. I believe that anyone can scale from $0 to $10000 per month. And the best way for me to do that is to build the application for you. Thats exactly what I did.

16:52:11
I spent two to three months. I did every single thing, and I gave it away for free. So, you now have access to every single thing. All thats left for you to do now is start, you need to start getting. Helping people and launch your SAS. The most difficult part in your SAS journey is already done for you. I have invested thousands of dollars into the production of this video.

16:52:36
That way, you can get access to all of this free value and not have to invest even a single dime or waste any of your time. This way, you have zero excuses to take action. And hopefully in the future, when you're ready to scale to the moon, and once you've hit 10,20, or even $30000 per month, through your SAS, thats, when yours truly can come in.

16:52:57
And I can essentially invest my time and my energy into your SAS company and help you scale to the moon. Okay, thats pretty much it guys. Hope you enjoyed this video, and I will see you in the next one. 